A Captain in Fortinbras's army
A Lord
A baseness to write fair, and labored much
A blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up
A bloody deed--almost as bad, good mother
A broken voice, and his whole function suiting
A brother's murder. Pray can I not
A chalice for the nonce, whereon but sipping
A combination and a form indeed
A couch for luxury and damned incest
A countenance more in sorrow than in anger
A cutpurse of the empire and the rule
A damned defeat was made. Am I a coward
A double blessing is a double grace
A dull and muddy-mettled rascal, peak
A face without a heart
A fault against the dead, a fault to nature
A flourish for the Players
A flourish of trumpets and two pieces goes off
A heart unfortified, a mind impatient
A kind of wick or snuff that will abate it
A little ere the mightiest Julius fell
A little month, or ere those shoes were old
A little more than kin and less than kind
A man that Fortune's buffets and rewards
A march afar off and shot within
A minist'ring angel shall my sister be
A mote it is to trouble the mind's eye
A noise within
A noise within
A noise within:] "Let her come in
A pickax and a spade, a spade
A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee
A rhapsody of words! Heaven's face does glow
A royal knavery--an exact command
A sable silvered
A savageness in unreclaimed blood
A second time I kill my husband dead
A serpent stung me. So the whole ear of Denmark
A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still
A sister driven into desp'rate terms
A slave that is not twentieth part the tithe
A stallion! Fie upon 't! Foh
A station like the herald Mercury
A sword unbated, and in a pass of practice
A table prepared. Enter Trumpets, Drums, and Officers
A thought which, quartered, hath but one part
A touch, a touch. I do confess 't
A truant disposition, good my lord
A very ribbon in the cap of youth
A very very--pajock
A villain kills my father, and for that
A violet in the youth of primy nature
A worthy pioner! Once more remove, good friends
ACT 1
ACT 2
ACT 3
ACT 4
ACT 5
ALL  Armed, my lord
ALL  Gentlemen
ALL  My lord, from head to foot
ALL  No, let's come in
ALL  Our duty to your Honor
ALL  Treason, treason
ALL  We do, my lord
ALL  We will, we will
AMBASSADOR  The sight is dismal
About her lank and all o'erteemed loins
About the world have times twelve thirties been
About, my brains!--Hum, I have heard
Absent thee from felicity awhile
Abuses me to damn me. I'll have grounds
According to the phrase or the addition
Acts little of his will.--Tell me, Laertes
Addicted so and so." And there put on him
Adieu, adieu, adieu. Remember me.	[He exits
Admit no messengers, receive no tokens
Affection, puh! You speak like a green girl
Affront Ophelia
After the Danish sword, and thy free awe
After the thing it loves
Against the which a moiety competent
Against thy mother aught. Leave her to heaven
Against yourself. I know you are no truant
Ah, mine own lord, what have I seen tonight
Alack and fie for shame
Alas, how shall this bloody deed be answered
Alas, sweet lady, what imports this song
Alexander till he find it stopping a bunghole
All but Hamlet and Horatio exit
All but Hamlet exit
All but Hamlet exit
All but Hamlet exit
All but the King exit
All flaxen was his poll
All from her father's death, and now behold
All given to mine ear
All in the morning betime
All may be well.	[He kneels
All my smooth body
All saws of books, all forms, all pressures past
Almost to jelly with the act of fear
Ambassadors to Denmark from England
Among a mineral of metals base
An anchor's cheer in prison be my scope
An earnest conjuration from the King
An eye like Mars' to threaten and command
An hour of quiet thereby shall we see
An thou hadst not come to my bed
An understanding simple and unschooled
And 'gins to pale his uneffectual fire
And 'scape detecting, I will pay the theft
And (would it were not so) you are my mother
And England, if my love thou hold'st at aught
And I a maid at your window
And I am sick at heart
And I believe it is a fetch of wit
And I beseech you instantly to visit
And I do doubt the hatch and the disclose
And I do think, or else this brain of mine
And I the matter will reword, which madness
And I with them the third night kept the watch
And I'll be placed, so please you, in the ear
And I, of ladies most deject and wretched
And a man's life's no more than to say "one
And a most instant tetter barked about
And all we mourn for
And am most sensibly in grief for it
And at the sound it shrunk in haste away
And batten on this moor? Ha! Have you eyes
And be not from his reason fall'n thereon
And bear it to the chapel
And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all
And blow them at the moon. O, 'tis most sweet
And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry
And botch the words up fit to their own thoughts
And both neglect. What if this cursed hand
And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon
And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven
And break your own neck down
And breath of life, I have no life to breathe
And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is
And call it accident
And call the noblest to the audience
And can say nothing--no, not for a king
And can you by no drift of conference
And carriage of the article designed
And cleave the general ear with horrid speech
And convey is assistant, do not sleep
And could of men distinguish, her election
And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee
And curd, like eager droppings into milk
And do 't the speedier that you may direct me
And do not spread the compost on the weeds
And do such bitter business as the day
And draw you into madness? Think of it
And drive his purpose into these delights
And duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed
And dupped the chamber door
And each particular hair to stand an end
And either ... the devil or throw him out
And end his being. That done, he lets me go
And enterprises of great pitch and moment
And even the like precurse of feared events
And ever three parts coward), I do not know
And fall a-cursing like a very drab
And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest
And for his death no wind of blame shall breathe
And for my means, I'll husband them so well
And for my soul, what can it do to that
And for that purpose I'll anoint my sword
And for the day confined to fast in fires
And for your part, Ophelia, I do wish
And for your rapier most especial
And foreign mart for implements of war
And from her fair and unpolluted flesh
And from his mother's closet hath he dragged him
And from his mouth whose voice will draw on
And gather by him, as he is behaved
And gave you such a masterly report
And gem of all the nation
And hath abatements and delays as many
And hath given countenance to his speech, my lord
And hath shipped me into the land
And he beseeched me to entreat your Majesties
And he to England shall along with you
And he, repelled (a short tale to make
And hears it roar beneath
And here give up ourselves in the full bent
And his commission to employ those soldiers
And his sandal shoon
And hit the woundless air. O, come away
And hitherto doth love on fortune tend
And how his audit stands who knows save heaven
And how, and who, what means, and where they
And hurt my brother
And if thou prate of mountains, let them throw
And in a postscript here, he says "alone
And in his grave rained many a tear
And in the cup an union shall he throw
And in the porches of my ears did pour
And in this brainish apprehension kills
And in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain
And it must follow, as the night the day
And keep you in the rear of your affection
And lay your hands again upon my sword
And leads the will to desperate undertakings
And let all sleep, while to my shame I see
And let him know so
And let him, for a pair of reechy kisses
And let me speak to th' yet unknowing world
And let me wring your heart; for so I shall
And let the kettle to the trumpet speak
And let them know both what we mean to do
And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark
And let us hear Barnardo speak of this
And let us once again assail your ears
And live the purer with the other half
And lose the name of action.--Soft you now
And lose your voice. What wouldst thou beg
And makes as healthful music. It is not madness
And makes each petty arture in this body
And makes us rather bear those ills we have
And many suchlike ases of great charge
And marshal me to knavery. Let it work
And meant to wrack thee. But beshrew my jealousy
And melt in her own fire. Proclaim no shame
And mermaid-like awhile they bore her up
And more above, hath his solicitings
And much offense, too. Touching this vision here
And my imaginations are as foul
And my young mistress thus I did bespeak
And never come mischance between us twain
And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall
And not have strewed thy grave
And nothing is at a like goodness still
And now I'll do 't.	[He draws his sword
And now no soil nor cautel doth besmirch
And now, Laertes, what's the news with you
And of all Christians' souls, I pray God. God be wi
And oft 'tis seen the wicked prize itself
And our affairs from England come too late
And our vain blows malicious mockery
And passion in the gods
And pious action we do sugar o'er
And pity 'tis 'tis true--a foolish figure
And praised be rashness for it; let us know
And prey on garbage
And prologue to the omen coming on
And put it in his pocket
And reason panders will
And recks not his own rede
And set a double varnish on the fame
And sets a blister there, makes marriage vows
And shall I couple hell? O fie! Hold, hold, my heart
And sith so neighbored to his youth and havior
And so am I revenged. That would be scanned
And so have I a noble father lost
And so he goes to heaven
And so, without more circumstance at all
And spur my dull revenge. What is a man
And stand a comma 'tween their amities
And still your fingers on your lips, I pray
And sure I am two men there is not living
And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes
And tell you what I know
And terms compulsatory, those foresaid lands
And that I see, in passages of proof
And that he calls for drink, I'll have prepared
And that his soul may be as damned and black
And that in Hamlet's hearing, for a quality
And that in way of caution), I must tell you
And that our drift look through our bad
And that shall lend a kind of easiness
And that your Grace hath screened and stood
And that, I hope, will teach you to imagine
And the King's rouse the heaven shall bruit again
And then it started like a guilty thing
And then this "should" is like a spendthrift sigh
And then, they say, no spirit dare stir abroad
And there I see such black and grained spots
And there assume some other horrible form
And there did seem in him a kind of joy
And therefore I forbid my tears. But yet
And therefore as a stranger give it welcome
And therefore must his choice be circumscribed
And these few precepts in thy memory
And they can well on horseback, but this gallant
And they in France of the best rank and station
And they shall hear and judge 'twixt you and me
And think it pastime. You shortly shall hear more
And thirty dozen moons with borrowed sheen
And thou must cure me. Till I know 'tis done
And thou shalt live in this fair world behind
And thrice his head thus waving up and down
And thus awhile the fit will work on him
And thus do we of wisdom and of reach
And thus o'ersized with coagulate gore
And thus the native hue of resolution
And thy best graces spend it at thy will
And thy commandment all alone shall live
And to such wondrous doing brought his horse
And to the last bended their light on me
And to the manner born, it is a custom
And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge
And vanished from our sight
And wager on your heads. He, being remiss
And waits upon the judgment; and what judgment
And wants not buzzers to infect his ear
And we beseech you, bend you to remain
And we cast away moan
And we did think it writ down in our duty
And we shall jointly labor with your soul
And what make you from Wittenberg, Horatio
And what so poor a man as Hamlet is
And what's in prayer but this twofold force
And what's untimely done
And whatsomever else shall hap tonight
And when he's not himself does wrong Laertes
And where th' offense is, let the great ax fall
And who in want a hollow friend doth try
And why such daily cast of brazen cannon
And will he not come again
And will he not come again
And will not let belief take hold of him
And will not wrong it
And will this brothers' wager frankly play
And with a larger tether may he walk
And with a look so piteous in purport
And with a sudden vigor it doth posset
And with no less nobility of love
And with such cozenage--is 't not perfect
And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken
And with th' incorporal air do hold discourse
And with them words of so sweet breath composed
And women's fear and love hold quantity
And yet it is almost against my conscience
And you are stayed for. There, my blessing with
And you must needs have heard, how I am punished
And you must put me in your heart for friend
And you yourself shall keep the key of it
And you, my sinews, grow not instant old
And you, the judges, bear a wary eye
And, after, we will both our judgments join
And, as I think, they have already order
And, as he drains his draughts of Rhenish down
And, as my love is sized, my fear is so
And, as the sleeping soldiers in th' alarm
And, as the world were now but to begin
And, as you said (and wisely was it said
And, at our more considered time, we'll read
And, but that great command o'ersways the order
And, by opposing, end them. To die, to sleep
And, in part, him, but," you may say, "not well
And, in part, him." Do you mark this, Reynaldo
And, in the morn and liquid dew of youth
And, in this upshot, purposes mistook
And, like a man to double business bound
And, like a neutral to his will and matter
And, like the kind life-rend'ring pelican
And, sister, as the winds give benefit
And, when you are desirous to be blest
And, where 'tis so, th' offender's scourge is weighed
And, with his head over his shoulder turned
And, with his other hand thus o'er his brow
Angels and ministers of grace, defend us
Anon, as patient as the female dove
Answer, and think upon this business
Antiquity forgot, custom not known
Appears before them and with solemn march
Are base respects of thrift, but none of love
Are burnt and purged away. But that I am forbid
Are here arrived, give order that these bodies
Are joyfully returned
Are mortised and adjoined, which, when it falls
Are of a most select and generous chief in that
Arm you, I pray you, to this speedy voyage
Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pie
Armed, say you
Aroused vengeance sets him new a-work
Art more engaged! Help, angels! Make assay
As "Well, well, we know," or "We could an if we
As 'twere a thing a little soiled i' th' working
As England was his faithful tributary
As I do live, my honored lord, 'tis true
As I do thee.--Something too much of this
As I perceived it, I must tell you that
As I perchance hereafter shall think meet
As Vulcan's stithy. Give him heedful note
As any the most vulgar thing to sense
As are companions noted and most known
As by lot, God wot
As by your safety, greatness, wisdom, all things else
As checking at his voyage, and that he means
As day does to your eye
As deep as to the lungs? Who does me this
As did that one, and that, in my regard
As e'er my conversation coped withal
As false as dicers' oaths--O, such a deed
As fits a king's remembrance
As from the body of contraction plucks
As had he been encorpsed and demi-natured
As harbingers preceding still the fates
As hardy as the Nemean lion's nerve
As he in his particular act and place
As he is very potent with such spirits
As he would draw it. Long stayed he so
As hell, whereto it goes. My mother stays
As how should it be so? how otherwise
As hush as death, anon the dreadful thunder
As if I had never been such
As if he had been loosed out of hell
As if increase of appetite had grown
As if it some impartment did desire
As in their birth (wherein they are not guilty
As infinite as man may undergo
As it behooves my daughter and your honor
As it did seem to shatter all his bulk
As it doth well appear unto our state
As it hath used to do, that I have found
As it is common for the younger sort
As kill a king
As kill a king and marry with his brother
As level as the cannon to his blank
As love between them like the palm might flourish
As low as to the fiends
As made the things more rich. Their perfume
As make your bouts more violent to that end
As may dishonor him, take heed of that
As meditation or the thoughts of love
As my great power thereof may give thee sense
As needful in our loves, fitting our duty
As of a father; for let the world take note
As of a man faithful and honorable
As oft as any passions under heaven
As one in suffering all that suffers nothing
As one incapable of her own distress
As peace should still her wheaten garland wear
As stars with trains of fire and dews of blood
As the indifferent children of the earth
As there are tongues, are hands, are accidents
As therein are set down
As they fell out by time, by means, and place
As thus: "I know his father and his friends
As to expend your time with us awhile
As to give words or talk with the Lord Hamlet
As to peace-parted souls
As watchman to my heart. But, good my brother
As we have warranty. Her death was doubtful
As will not leave their tinct
As you are friends, scholars, and soldiers
Aside.] They fool me to the top of my bent.--I will
Aside.] To my sick soul (as sin's true nature is
Assume a virtue if you have it not
At "closes in the consequence"--ay, marry
At game, a-swearing, or about some act
At his head a grass-green turf
At his heels a stone
At last, a little shaking of mine arm
At least I am sure it may be so in Denmark
At least the whisper goes so: our last king
At such a time I'll loose my daughter to him
Attendants, Lords, Guards, Musicians, Laertes's Followers, Soldiers, Officers
Attends the boist'rous ruin. Never alone
Awake the god of day, and at his warning
Away, I do beseech you both, away
Away, for everything is sealed and done
Ay, "fashion" you may call it. Go to, go to
Ay, madam, it is common
Ay, so, good-bye to you
Ay, springes to catch woodcocks. I do know
Ay, that incestuous, that adulterate beast
Ay, thou poor ghost, whiles memory holds a seat
BARNARDO
BARNARDO
BARNARDO
BARNARDO
BARNARDO
BARNARDO
BARNARDO
BARNARDO
BARNARDO
BARNARDO  'Tis here
BARNARDO  Have you had quiet guard
BARNARDO  He
BARNARDO  I have seen nothing
BARNARDO  Last night of all
BARNARDO  Long live the King
BARNARDO  Say, what, is Horatio there
BARNARDO  See, it stalks away
BARNARDO  Sit down awhile
BARNARDO  Well, good night
BARNARDO  Who's there
BARNARDO/MARCELLUS  Longer, longer
Baked and impasted with the parching streets
Barbary horses against six French swords, their
Barnardo hath my place. Give you good night
Be all my sins remembered
Be as ourself in Denmark.--Madam, come
Be buried quick with her, and so will I
Be but to sleep and feed? A beast, no more
Be ruled. You shall not go
Be soft as sinews of the newborn babe
Be something scanter of your maiden presence
Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damned
Be thou assured, if words be made of breath
Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar
Be thy intents wicked or charitable
Be wary, then; best safety lies in fear
Be you content to lend your patience to us
Bear 't that th' opposed may beware of thee
Bear Hamlet like a soldier to the stage
Bears such an emphasis, whose phrase of sorrow
Becomes the field but here shows much amiss
Been struck so to the soul that presently
Been thus encountered: a figure like your father
Before mine uncle. I'll observe his looks
Before my God, I might not this believe
Before my daughter told me), what might you
Before you visit him, to make inquire
Behind the arras I'll convey myself
Behind the arras hearing something stir
Being a thing immortal as itself
Being nature's livery or fortune's star
Being thus benetted round with villainies
Believe so much in him that he is young
Bestial oblivion or some craven scruple
Bestow this place on us a little while
Between the pass and fell incensed points
Black as his purpose, did the night resemble
Blasted with ecstasy. O, woe is me
Blasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes
Both countenance and excuse.--Ho, Guildenstern
Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife
Both to my God and to my gracious king
Bow, stubborn knees, and heart with strings of steel
Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel
Break not your sleeps for that. You must not think
Break we our watch up, and by my advice
Breathing like sanctified and pious bawds
Brief let me be. Sleeping within my orchard
Bring him before us
Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from
Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye
But I am pigeon-livered and lack gall
But I am very sorry, good Horatio
But I do prophesy th' election lights
But I have that within which passes show
But I will delve one yard below their mines
But age with his stealing steps
But answer made it none. Yet once methought
But as we often see against some storm
But bear me stiffly up. Remember thee
But break, my heart, for I must hold my tongue
But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead
But do not dull thy palm with entertainment
But do not go with it
But even his mother shall uncharge the practice
But even then the morning cock crew loud
But fall unshaken when they mellow be
But farewell it, for I will use no art
But from what cause he will by no means speak
But greatly to find quarrel in a straw
But he's an arrant knave
But if 't be he I mean, he's very wild
But if the gods themselves did see her then
But in a fiction, in a dream of passion
But in battalions: first, her father slain
But in our circumstance and course of thought
But in the gross and scope of mine opinion
But is there no sequel at the heels of this
But it reserved some quantity of choice
But keep a farm and carters
But let it be.--Horatio, I am dead
But let me hear from you
But let that go
But let this same be presently performed
But look where sadly the poor wretch comes
But look, amazement on thy mother sits
But look, the morn in russet mantle clad
But mad in craft. 'Twere good you let him know
But mere implorators of unholy suits
But never doubt I love
But never the offense. To bear all smooth and even
But not by him
But not expressed in fancy (rich, not gaudy
But not where I have aimed them
But now, my cousin Hamlet and my son
But our cold maids do "dead men's fingers" call
But pardon 't as you are a gentleman. This presence
But since, so jump upon this bloody question
But soft, behold! Lo, where it comes again
But soft, but soft awhile! Here comes the King
But soft, methinks I scent the morning air
But that I know love is begun by time
But that the dread of something after death
But that this folly drowns it.	[He exits
But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell
But this eternal blazon must not be
But this most foul, strange, and unnatural
But to confront the visage of offense
But to recover of us, by strong hand
But truly I do fear it
But two months dead--nay, not so much, not two
But virtue, as it never will be moved
But we will ship him hence; and this vile deed
But what is your affair in Elsinore
But what we do determine oft we break
But what, in faith, make you from Wittenberg
But who, ah woe, had seen the mobled queen
But wilt thou hear now how I did proceed
But with a crafty madness keeps aloof
But with much forcing of his disposition
But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword
But woe is me! You are so sick of late
But yet to me they're strong. The Queen his mother
But you must know your father lost a father
But you'll be secret
But, better looked into, he truly found
But, howsomever thou pursues this act
But, if you hold it fit, after the play
But, like the owner of a foul disease
But, orderly to end where I begun
But, since he is better, we have therefore odds
But, sir, such wanton, wild, and usual slips
But, sure, the bravery of his grief did put me
But, to my mind, though I am native here
Buys out the law. But 'tis not so above
By Cock, they are to blame
By desperate appliance are relieved
By heaven, I'll make a ghost of him that lets me
By heaven, it is as proper to our age
By heaven, thy madness shall be paid with weight
By his cockle hat and staff
By indirections find directions out
By laborsome petition, and at last
By letters congruing to that effect
By the o'ergrowth of some complexion
By their oppressed and fear-surprised eyes
By this encompassment and drift of question
By what it fed on. And yet, within a month
CAPTAIN
CAPTAIN
CAPTAIN
CAPTAIN  Against some part of Poland
CAPTAIN  God be wi' you, sir.	[He exits
CAPTAIN  I will do 't, my lord
CAPTAIN  They are of Norway, sir
CORNELIUS
CORNELIUS/VOLTEMAND
Call him a-down-a."--O, how the wheel becomes
Call me what instrument you will, though you can
Calls virtue hypocrite, takes off the rose
Can serve my turn? "Forgive me my foul murder
Can you advise me
Capitol. Brutus killed me
Caps, hands, and tongues applaud it to the clouds
Carrying, I say, the stamp of one defect
Carve for himself, for on his choice depends
Characters in the Play
Christian burial
Christian burial
Christian, pagan, nor man, have so strutted and
Clamb'ring to hang, an envious sliver broke
Claudius rises
Colleagued with this dream of his advantage
Collected from all simples that have virtue
Come
Come hither, gentlemen
Come on, you hear this fellow in the cellarage
Come short of what he did
Come, Gertrude, we'll call up our wisest friends
Come, Hamlet, come and take this hand from me
Come, I will give you way for these your letters
Come, come, and sit you down; you shall not budge
Come, come, deal justly with me. Come, come; nay
Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue
Come, for England.	[He exits
Come, for the third, Laertes. You do but dally
Come, go with me. I will go seek the King
Come, sir, to draw toward an end with you
Come, some music
Come. [They play.] Another hit. What say you
Comes armed through our watch so like the king
Compounded it with dust, whereto 'tis kin
Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works
Confederate season, else no creature seeing
Confound the ignorant and amaze indeed
Conjures the wand'ring stars and makes them stand
Conscience and grace, to the profoundest pit
Consent to swear
Contagion to this world. Now could I drink hot
Contagious blastments are most imminent
Convert his gyves to graces, so that my arrows
Cornelius
Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy
Couch we awhile and mark.	[They step aside
Could force his soul so to his own conceit
Could not so mope. O shame, where is thy blush
Could not with all their quantity of love
Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed
Courtiers at the Danish court
Craves the conveyance of a promised march
Created on Jul 31, 2015, from FDT version 0.9.2
Cries "cuckold" to my father, brands the harlot
Cry to be heard, as 'twere from heaven to earth
Cut off, even in the blossoms of my sin
DOCTOR
DOCTOR  No more be done
Dangerous conjectures in ill-breeding minds
Danish soldiers
Dared to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet
Dear maid, kind sister, sweet Ophelia
Delay it not. I'll have him hence tonight
Deliberate pause. Diseases desperate grown
Denmark
Denmark
Denmark, and those that would make mouths at
Deprived thee of!--Hold off the earth awhile
Devised a new commission, wrote it fair
Devoutly to be wished. To die, to sleep
Did Hamlet so envenom with his envy
Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables
Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands
Did not together pluck such envy from him
Did nothing
Did slay this Fortinbras, who by a sealed compact
Did sometimes march? By heaven, I charge thee
Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets
Did the king sigh, but with a general groan
Did you not speak to it
Dies in his own too-much. That we would do
Dies not alone, but like a gulf doth draw
Directly seasons him his enemy
Disasters in the sun; and the moist star
Discomfort you, my lord, it nothing must
Divided from herself and her fair judgment
Do I impart toward you. For your intent
Do not believe his vows, for they are brokers
Do not forever with thy vailed lids
Do not itself unkennel in one speech
Do not, as some ungracious pastors do
Do not, my lord
Do you believe his "tenders," as you call them
Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it
Do you not come your tardy son to chide
Doctor of Divinity
Does by their own insinuation grow
Does it not, think thee, stand me now upon
Does not divide the Sunday from the week
Doomed for a certain term to walk the night
Dost know this waterfly
Doth all the noble substance of a doubt
Doth make the night joint laborer with the day
Doth rend the region; so, after Pyrrhus' pause
Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat
Doubt that the sun doth move
Doubt thou the stars are fire
Doubt truth to be a liar
Drink off this potion. Is thy union here
Drum, Colors, and Attendants
Drum, trumpets, and shot
Each opposite that blanks the face of joy
Each small annexment, petty consequence
Each toy seems prologue to some great amiss
Ears without hands or eyes, smelling sans all
Earth, seems to me a sterile promontory; this most
Eats not the flats with more impiteous haste
Edited by Barbara A. Mowat and Paul Werstine
Else could you not have motion; but sure that sense
Elsinore
England
Enter Ambassadors Voltemand and Cornelius with
Enter Barnardo and Francisco, two sentinels
Enter Fortinbras with his army over the stage
Enter Fortinbras with the English Ambassadors with
Enter Ghost
Enter Ghost
Enter Ghost
Enter Ghost
Enter Ghost and Hamlet
Enter Gravedigger and Another
Enter Guildenstern and Rosencrantz
Enter Hamlet
Enter Hamlet
Enter Hamlet
Enter Hamlet
Enter Hamlet and Horatio
Enter Hamlet and Horatio afar off
Enter Hamlet and three of the Players
Enter Hamlet reading on a book
Enter Hamlet, Horatio, and Marcellus
Enter Hamlet, Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, and others
Enter Horatio
Enter Horatio and Marcellus
Enter Horatio and Marcellus
Enter Horatio and others
Enter Horatio, Marcellus, and Barnardo
Enter Horatio, Queen, and a Gentleman
Enter King
Enter King and Laertes
Enter King and Queen, with Rosencrantz and
Enter King and two or three
Enter King, Queen, Laertes, Lords attendant, and the
Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz
Enter King, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern
Enter Laertes and Ophelia, his sister
Enter Laertes with others
Enter Lucianus
Enter Ophelia
Enter Ophelia
Enter Ophelia distracted
Enter Osric
Enter Osric, a courtier
Enter Polonius
Enter Polonius
Enter Polonius
Enter Polonius
Enter Polonius
Enter Polonius, Guildenstern, and Rosencrantz
Enter Prologue
Enter Queen
Enter Queen and Polonius
Enter Rosencrantz
Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern
Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern
Enter Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, and others
Enter Sailors
Enter Trumpets and Kettle Drums. Enter King, Queen
Enter a King and a Queen, very lovingly, the Queen
Enter a Lord
Enter a Messenger
Enter a Messenger with letters
Enter old Polonius with his man Reynaldo
Enter the Player King and Queen
Enter the Players
Enter the Players with recorders
Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears
Even for an eggshell. Rightly to be great
Even here between the chaste unsmirched brow
Even in their promise as it is a-making
Even on the pith of life. Where is he gone
Even to the teeth and forehead of our faults
Even while men's minds are wild, lest more
Even with the very comment of thy soul
Exchange forgiveness with me, noble Hamlet
Excitements of my reason and my blood
Exposing what is mortal and unsure
Extorted treasure in the womb of earth
Eyes without feeling, feeling without sight
FIRST PLAYER
FIRST PLAYER
FIRST PLAYER  Anon he finds him
FIRST PLAYER  Ay, my lord
FIRST PLAYER  Ay, my lord
FIRST PLAYER  What speech, my good lord
FORTINBRAS
FORTINBRAS
FORTINBRAS  Go softly on.	[All but the Captain exit
FORTINBRAS  Let four captains
FORTINBRAS  Let us haste to hear it
FORTINBRAS  Where is this sight
FORTINBRAS, Prince of Norway
FRANCISCO
FRANCISCO
FRANCISCO
FRANCISCO
FRANCISCO
FRANCISCO
FRANCISCO  Barnardo
FRANCISCO  Give you good night
FRANCISCO  Not a mouse stirring
Faith, I must leave thee, love, and shortly too
Faith, no, as you may season it in the charge
Fall ten times treble on that cursed head
Fall'n on th' inventors' heads. All this can I
Fare you well, my dove
Farewell, Ophelia, and remember well
Farewell, and let your haste commend your duty
Farewell, dear mother
Farewell.	[Reynaldo exits
Farewell. My blessing season this in thee
Fear it, Ophelia; fear it, my dear sister
Feeds on his wonder, keeps himself in clouds
Fell in the weeping brook. Her clothes spread wide
Fell into a sadness, then into a fast
Fie on 't, ah fie! 'Tis an unweeded garden
Fingered their packet, and in fine withdrew
Fixed on the summit of the highest mount
Flourish. All but Hamlet exit
Flourish. Enter Claudius, King of Denmark, Gertrude the
Flourish. Enter King and Queen, Rosencrantz and
Folded the writ up in the form of th' other
Folger Shakespeare Library
Follow her close; give her good watch, I pray you
Follow him at foot; tempt him with speed aboard
Follow my mother.	[King dies
For 'tis a question left us yet to prove
For 'tis the sport to have the enginer
For England
For Hamlet, and the trifling of his favor
For Hecuba
For I mine eyes will rivet to his face
For and a shrouding sheet
For art and exercise in your defense
For bearers of this greeting to old Norway
For by the image of my cause I see
For every man hath business and desire
For food and diet to some enterprise
For good Polonius' death, and we have done but
For goodness, growing to a pleurisy
For he himself is subject to his birth
For he was likely, had he been put on
For her perfections. But my revenge will come
For husband shalt thou
For if the King like not the comedy
For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
For it is as the air, invulnerable
For like the hectic in my blood he rages
For loan oft loses both itself and friend
For me, with sorrow I embrace my fortune
For murder, though it have no tongue, will speak
For nature, crescent, does not grow alone
For out o' doors he went without their helps
For so this side of our known world esteemed him
For some must watch, while some must sleep
For such a guest is meet
For such a guest is meet
For that which thou hast done) must send thee
For the apparel oft proclaims the man
For the demand of our neglected tribute
For the supply and profit of our hope
For they are actions that a man might play
For this effect defective comes by cause
For this relief much thanks. 'Tis bitter cold
For thou dost know, O Damon dear
For though I am not splenitive and rash
For us and for our tragedy
For use almost can change the stamp of nature
For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither
For we will fetters put about this fear
For what advancement may I hope from thee
For what we know must be and is as common
For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death
For who not needs shall never lack a friend
For who that's but a queen, fair, sober, wise
For who would bear the whips and scorns of time
For women fear too much, even as they love
For your desire to know what is between us
For, in the fatness of these pursy times
Forcing him to drink the poison
Fordo its own life. 'Twas of some estate
Form of the thing (each word made true and good
Forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep
Fortinbras
Fortune that she sends you to prison hither
Forward, not permanent, sweet, not lasting
Francisco exits
Free me so far in your most generous thoughts
Friends both, go join you with some further aid
From another one
From fashion of himself. What think you on 't
From me, whose love was of that dignity
From our achievements, though performed at
From that particular fault. The dram of evil
From the fair forehead of an innocent love
From the first corse till he that died today
From whence though willingly I came to Denmark
Full thirty times hath Phoebus' cart gone round
GENTLEMAN
GENTLEMAN  Seafaring men, sir. They say they have
GENTLEMAN  She is importunate
GENTLEMEN, [within]  Hamlet! Lord Hamlet
GHOST
GHOST
GHOST
GHOST
GHOST
GHOST
GHOST  Do not forget. This visitation
GHOST  I am thy father's spirit
GHOST  I find thee apt
GHOST  My hour is almost come
GHOST [cries under the stage]  Swear
GHOST, [beneath]  Swear
GHOST, [beneath]  Swear
GHOST, [beneath]  Swear by his sword
GRAVEDIGGER  'Tis a quick lie, sir; 'twill away again
GRAVEDIGGER  'Twill not be seen in him there. There
GRAVEDIGGER  A pestilence on him for a mad rogue
GRAVEDIGGER  A whoreson mad fellow's it was
GRAVEDIGGER  Ay, marry, is 't--crowner's 'quest law
GRAVEDIGGER  Ay, tell me that, and unyoke
GRAVEDIGGER  Cannot you tell that? Every fool can
GRAVEDIGGER  Cudgel thy brains no more about it
GRAVEDIGGER  E'en that
GRAVEDIGGER  Faith, e'en with losing his wits
GRAVEDIGGER  Faith, if he be not rotten before he die
GRAVEDIGGER  For no man, sir
GRAVEDIGGER  For none, neither
GRAVEDIGGER  Give me leave. Here lies the water
GRAVEDIGGER  He was the first that ever bore arms
GRAVEDIGGER  How can that be, unless she drowned
GRAVEDIGGER  I like thy wit well, in good faith. The
GRAVEDIGGER  Is she to be buried in Christian burial
GRAVEDIGGER  It must be se offendendo; it cannot be
GRAVEDIGGER  Mine, sir
GRAVEDIGGER  Of all the days i' th' year, I came to 't
GRAVEDIGGER  One that was a woman, sir, but, rest
GRAVEDIGGER  To 't
GRAVEDIGGER  Very strangely, they say
GRAVEDIGGER  What is he that builds stronger than
GRAVEDIGGER  What, art a heathen? How dost thou
GRAVEDIGGER  Why, because he was mad. He shall
GRAVEDIGGER  Why, here in Denmark. I have been
GRAVEDIGGER  Why, sir, his hide is so tanned with his
GRAVEDIGGER  Why, there thou sayst. And the more
GRAVEDIGGER  You lie out on 't, sir, and therefore 'tis
GRAVEDIGGER [sings
GRAVEDIGGER [sings
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN
GUILDENSTERN  A "thing," my lord
GUILDENSTERN  Believe me, I cannot
GUILDENSTERN  But these cannot I command to any
GUILDENSTERN  But we both obey
GUILDENSTERN  Faith, her privates we
GUILDENSTERN  Good my lord, put your discourse into
GUILDENSTERN  Good my lord, vouchsafe me a word
GUILDENSTERN  I know no touch of it, my lord
GUILDENSTERN  In what, my dear lord
GUILDENSTERN  Is in his retirement marvelous
GUILDENSTERN  My honored lord
GUILDENSTERN  My lord, I cannot
GUILDENSTERN  My lord, we were sent for
GUILDENSTERN  Nay, good my lord, this courtesy is not
GUILDENSTERN  No, my lord, with choler
GUILDENSTERN  O, my lord, if my duty be too bold, my
GUILDENSTERN  O, there has been much throwing
GUILDENSTERN  Prison, my lord
GUILDENSTERN  The King, sir
GUILDENSTERN  The Queen your mother, in most great
GUILDENSTERN  There are the players
GUILDENSTERN  We will ourselves provide
GUILDENSTERN  What should we say, my lord
GUILDENSTERN  Which dreams, indeed, are ambition
Gainst Fortune's state would treason have
Gentlemen
Gertrude
Get from him why he puts on this confusion
Get you a place
Ghost and Hamlet exit
Ghost beckons
Ghost exits
Ghost exits
Ghost exits
Give every man thy ear, but few thy voice
Give first admittance to th' ambassadors
Give him the cup
Give him this money and these notes, Reynaldo
Give it an understanding but no tongue
Give me my father
Give me one poor request
Give me the cup. Let go! By heaven, I'll ha 't
Give me your pardon, sir. I have done you wrong
Give them the foils, young Osric. Cousin Hamlet
Give us the foils. Come on
Given private time to you, and you yourself
Gives him three-score thousand crowns in annual
Gives me superfluous death
Giving more light than heat, extinct in both
Giving them a paper
Giving to you no further personal power
Go seek him out, speak fair, and bring the body
Go to their graves like beds, fight for a plot
Go to thy deathbed
Go to your rest. At night we'll feast together
Go, Captain, from me greet the Danish king
Go, bid the soldiers shoot
Go, go, you question with a wicked tongue
God 'a mercy on his soul
God bless you, sir
God willing, shall not lack. Let us go in together
Goes it against the main of Poland, sir
Goes slow and stately by them. Thrice he walked
Gonzago is the duke's name, his wife Baptista. You
Good Gertrude, set some watch over your son
Good Hamlet, cast thy nighted color off
Good gentlemen, give him a further edge
Good gentlemen, he hath much talked of you
Good madam, stay awhile. I will be faithful
Good my lord, tell it
Good night, mother
Good night. But go not to my uncle's bed
Good now, sit down, and tell me, he that knows
Good sir," or so, or "friend," or "gentleman
Grapple them unto thy soul with hoops of steel
Grating so harshly all his days of quiet
Gravedigger
Gravedigger's companion
Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident
Groped I to find out them; had my desire
Grows wide withal. Perhaps he loves you now
Guildenstern
Guildenstern and Attendants
Guildenstern, and Lords
Guildenstern? Ah, Rosencrantz! Good lads, how do
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET
HAMLET  "By and by" is easily said. Leave me
HAMLET  "The Mousetrap." Marry, how? Tropically
HAMLET  "The mobled queen
HAMLET  'Swounds, show me what thou 't do
HAMLET  'Tis e'en so. The hand of little employment
HAMLET  'Tis very strange
HAMLET  'Tis well. I'll have thee speak out the rest of
HAMLET  A dream itself is but a shadow
HAMLET  A goodly one, in which there are many confines
HAMLET  A king of shreds and patches
HAMLET  A man may fish with the worm that hath eat
HAMLET  A murderer and a villain
HAMLET  A whole one, I
HAMLET  Ah ha! Come, some music! Come, the
HAMLET  Alas, poor ghost
HAMLET  Am I not i' th' right, old Jephthah
HAMLET  And do still, by these pickers and stealers
HAMLET  And fixed his eyes upon you
HAMLET  And smelt so? Pah!	[He puts the skull down
HAMLET  Anything but to th' purpose. You were sent
HAMLET  Are you fair
HAMLET  As thou 'rt a man
HAMLET  As woman's love
HAMLET  At supper
HAMLET  Ay, lady, it was my word
HAMLET  Ay, marry, is 't
HAMLET  Ay, marry, why was he sent into England
HAMLET  Ay, or any show that you will show him. Be
HAMLET  Ay, sir, but "While the grass grows"--the
HAMLET  Ay, sir, that soaks up the King's countenance
HAMLET  Ay, sir, what of him
HAMLET  Ay, sir. To be honest, as this world goes, is to
HAMLET  Ay, truly, for the power of beauty will sooner
HAMLET  Be not too tame neither, but let your own
HAMLET  Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks
HAMLET  Between who
HAMLET  Bid the players make haste.	[Polonius exits
HAMLET  But soft, what noise? Who calls on Hamlet
HAMLET  But where was this
HAMLET  But yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for
HAMLET  Buzz, buzz
HAMLET  Come on, sir
HAMLET  Denmark's a prison
HAMLET  Do not believe it
HAMLET  Do the boys carry it away
HAMLET  Do they hold the same estimation they did
HAMLET  Do you see nothing there
HAMLET  Do you see yonder cloud that's almost in
HAMLET  Do you think I meant country matters
HAMLET  Dost thou think Alexander looked o' this
HAMLET  Ecstasy
HAMLET  Excellent well. You are a fishmonger
HAMLET  Excellent, i' faith, of the chameleon's dish. I
HAMLET  Follow him, friends. We'll hear a play
HAMLET  For England
HAMLET  For God's love, let me hear
HAMLET  For if the sun breed maggots in a dead
HAMLET  From top to toe
HAMLET  Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore
HAMLET  Get thee to a nunnery. Why wouldst thou be
HAMLET  God's bodykins, man, much better! Use every
HAMLET  Good
HAMLET  Good madam
HAMLET  Good sir, whose powers are these
HAMLET  Ha, ha, are you honest
HAMLET  Hark you, Guildenstern, and you too--at
HAMLET  Has this fellow no feeling of his business? He
HAMLET  He did comply, sir, with his dug before he
HAMLET  He poisons him i' th' garden for his estate. His
HAMLET  He that plays the king shall be welcome--his
HAMLET  He will stay till you come.	[Attendants exit
HAMLET  Hear you, sir
HAMLET  Hillo, ho, ho, boy! Come, bird, come
HAMLET  His beard was grizzled, no
HAMLET  Hold off your hands
HAMLET  How "strangely
HAMLET  How absolute the knave is! We must speak by
HAMLET  How came he mad
HAMLET  How chances it they travel? Their residence
HAMLET  How comes it? Do they grow rusty
HAMLET  How if I answer no
HAMLET  How is it with you, lady
HAMLET  How long is that since
HAMLET  How long will a man lie i' th' earth ere he rot
HAMLET  How purposed, sir, I pray you
HAMLET  I am but mad north-north-west. When the
HAMLET  I am constant to my purposes. They follow
HAMLET  I am glad of it. A knavish speech sleeps in a
HAMLET  I am glad to see you well
HAMLET  I am tame, sir. Pronounce
HAMLET  I beseech you, remember. [He motions to
HAMLET  I could interpret between you and your love
HAMLET  I dare not confess that, lest I should compare
HAMLET  I do beseech you
HAMLET  I do not think so. Since he went into France, I
HAMLET  I do not well understand that. Will you play
HAMLET  I embrace it freely
HAMLET  I have heard of your paintings too, well
HAMLET  I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it
HAMLET  I humbly thank you, sir. [Aside to Horatio
HAMLET  I humbly thank you, well
HAMLET  I mean, my head upon your lap
HAMLET  I pray you
HAMLET  I think it be thine indeed, for thou liest in 't
HAMLET  I will
HAMLET  I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the
HAMLET  I will receive it, sir, with all diligence of
HAMLET  I will tell you why; so shall my anticipation
HAMLET  I will watch tonight
HAMLET  I would I had been there
HAMLET  I would you did, sir. Yet, in faith, if you did, it
HAMLET  If she should break it now
HAMLET  If thou dost marry, I'll give thee this plague
HAMLET  In happy time
HAMLET  In heaven. Send thither to see. If your messenger
HAMLET  In my mind's eye, Horatio
HAMLET  In the secret parts of Fortune? O, most true
HAMLET  Indeed, sirs, but this troubles me
HAMLET  Indeed, upon my sword, indeed
HAMLET  Into my grave
HAMLET  Is 't possible
HAMLET  Is not parchment made of sheepskins
HAMLET  Is this a prologue or the posy of a ring
HAMLET  It is as easy as lying. Govern these ventages
HAMLET  It is but foolery, but it is such a kind of
HAMLET  It is not very strange; for my uncle is King of
HAMLET  It shall to the barber's with your beard
HAMLET  It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a
HAMLET  It would cost you a groaning to take off mine
HAMLET  Judgment
HAMLET  Lady, shall I lie in your lap
HAMLET  Let her not walk i' th' sun. Conception is a
HAMLET  Let the doors be shut upon him that he may
HAMLET  Madam, how like you this play
HAMLET  Make you a wholesome answer. My wit's
HAMLET  Marry, this is miching mallecho. It means
HAMLET  Methinks it is like a weasel
HAMLET  Murder
HAMLET  My excellent good friends! How dost thou
HAMLET  My fate cries out
HAMLET  My lord, I have news to tell you: when Roscius
HAMLET  Nay, I know not
HAMLET  Nay, I know not. Is it the King
HAMLET  Nay, but swear 't
HAMLET  Nay, but to live
HAMLET  Nay, come again
HAMLET  Nay, do not think I flatter
HAMLET  Nay, that follows not
HAMLET  No such matter. I will not sort you with the
HAMLET  No, believe me, 'tis very cold; the wind is
HAMLET  No, by the rood, not so
HAMLET  No, by this hand
HAMLET  No, faith, not a jot; but to follow him thither
HAMLET  No, good mother. Here's metal more
HAMLET  No, no, they do but jest, poison in jest. No
HAMLET  No, nor mine now. [To Polonius.] My lord, you
HAMLET  No, you will reveal it
HAMLET  Nor did you nothing hear
HAMLET  Nor the soles of her shoe
HAMLET  Not a whit. We defy augury. There is a
HAMLET  Not where he eats, but where he is eaten. A
HAMLET  Nothing
HAMLET  Nothing but to show you how a king may go a
HAMLET  Now, mother, what's the matter
HAMLET  O God
HAMLET  O God, I could be bounded in a nutshell and
HAMLET  O God, your only jig-maker. What should a
HAMLET  O Jephthah, judge of Israel, what a treasure
HAMLET  O good Horatio, I'll take the ghost's word for
HAMLET  O wonderful son that can so 'stonish a mother
HAMLET  O, I die, Horatio
HAMLET  O, but she'll keep her word
HAMLET  O, my prophetic soul! My uncle
HAMLET  O, reform it altogether. And let those that play
HAMLET  O, wonderful
HAMLET  Of him, sir
HAMLET  Of nothing. Bring me to him. Hide fox, and
HAMLET  One
HAMLET  Or like a whale
HAMLET  Or of a courtier, which could say "Good
HAMLET  Pale or red
HAMLET  Safely stowed
HAMLET  Saw who
HAMLET  She well instructs me.	[Lord exits
HAMLET  Sir, I cannot
HAMLET  Sir, I lack advancement
HAMLET  Sir, I will walk here in the hall. If it please his
HAMLET  Sir, a whole history
HAMLET  Sir, his definement suffers no perdition in
HAMLET  Slanders, sir; for the satirical rogue says here
HAMLET  So be it
HAMLET  So long? Nay, then, let the devil wear black
HAMLET  So you mis-take your husbands.--Begin
HAMLET  Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounced
HAMLET  Speak. I am bound to hear
HAMLET  Such an act
HAMLET  That I can keep your counsel and not mine
HAMLET  That if you be honest and fair, your honesty
HAMLET  That is Laertes, a very noble youth. Mark
HAMLET  That skull had a tongue in it and could sing
HAMLET  That you must teach me. But let me conjure
HAMLET  That's a fair thought to lie between maids
HAMLET  That's two of his weapons. But, well
HAMLET  That's wormwood
HAMLET  The King my father
HAMLET  The body is with the King, but the King is not
HAMLET  The concernancy, sir? Why do we wrap the
HAMLET  The phrase would be more germane to the
HAMLET  Then I will come to my mother by and by
HAMLET  Then I would you were so honest a man
HAMLET  Then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs
HAMLET  Then came each actor on his ass
HAMLET  Then is doomsday near. But your news is not
HAMLET  Then saw you not his face
HAMLET  Then you live about her waist, or in the
HAMLET  There's another. Why may not that be the
HAMLET  They are coming to the play. I must be idle
HAMLET  They are sheep and calves which seek out
HAMLET  This
HAMLET  Thou dost lie in 't, to be in 't and say it is thine
HAMLET  Thou pray'st not well.	[They grapple
HAMLET  To this effect, sir, after what flourish your
HAMLET  To what base uses we may return, Horatio
HAMLET  Up from my cabin
HAMLET  Upon the talk of the poisoning
HAMLET  Upon what ground
HAMLET  Very like. Stayed it long
HAMLET  Very well, my lord
HAMLET  Very well. Follow that lord--and look you
HAMLET  We shall know by this fellow. The players
HAMLET  We shall obey, were she ten times our mother
HAMLET  We'll ha 't tomorrow night. You could, for a
HAMLET  Well, God-a-mercy
HAMLET  What
HAMLET  What call you the "carriages
HAMLET  What did you enact
HAMLET  What ho, Horatio
HAMLET  What hour now
HAMLET  What man dost thou dig it for
HAMLET  What woman then
HAMLET  What's his weapon
HAMLET  What's the matter now
HAMLET  What, are they children? Who maintains 'em
HAMLET  What, frighted with false fire
HAMLET  What, looked he frowningly
HAMLET  Who commands them, sir
HAMLET  Who is to be buried in 't
HAMLET  Who, I
HAMLET  Whose was it
HAMLET  Why
HAMLET  Why
HAMLET  Why
HAMLET  Why did you laugh, then, when I said "man
HAMLET  Why he more than another
HAMLET  Why, e'en so. And now my Lady Worm's
HAMLET  Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing
HAMLET  Why, right, you are in the right
HAMLET  Why, then, 'tis none to you, for there is
HAMLET  Why, what should be the fear
HAMLET  With drink, sir
HAMLET  Words, words, words
HAMLET  You are welcome
HAMLET  You cannot, sir, take from me anything that I
HAMLET  You should not have believed me, for virtue
HAMLET  Your wisdom should show itself more richer
HAMLET  Yours. [Osric exits.] He does well to commend
HAMLET, Prince of Denmark, son of the late King Hamlet and Queen Gertrude
HAMLET, [advancing
HAMLET, [aside
HAMLET, [aside to Horatio]  Thy state is the more gracious
HAMLET, [aside]  Nay, then, I have an eye of you.--If
HAMLET, [aside]  These tedious old fools
HAMLET, [taking the skull]  Let me see. Alas, poor
HAMLET, [to Horatio]  What, the fair Ophelia
HAMLET, [to Laertes
HAMLET, [to Osric]  What imports the nomination of
HAMLET, [within]  Mother, mother, mother
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO
HORATIO  'Tis here
HORATIO  'Twere to consider too curiously to consider
HORATIO  A piece of him
HORATIO  As thou art to thyself
HORATIO  Ay, good my lord
HORATIO  Ay, my lord
HORATIO  Ay, my lord, and of calves' skins too
HORATIO  Custom hath made it in him a property of
HORATIO  Do, if it will not stand
HORATIO  E'en so
HORATIO  E'en so, my lord
HORATIO  Friends to this ground
HORATIO  Good my lord, be quiet
HORATIO  Hail to your Lordship
HORATIO  Half a share
HORATIO  Heavens secure him
HORATIO  Here, sweet lord, at your service
HORATIO  His purse is empty already; all 's golden words
HORATIO  How was this sealed
HORATIO  I beseech you
HORATIO  I did very well note him
HORATIO  I knew you must be edified by the margent
HORATIO  I think it lacks of twelve
HORATIO  I warrant it will
HORATIO  If your mind dislike anything, obey it. I will
HORATIO  In faith, my lord, not I
HORATIO  Is 't not possible to understand in another
HORATIO  Is 't possible
HORATIO  Is it a custom
HORATIO  It might, my lord
HORATIO  It would have much amazed you
HORATIO  Let Him bless thee too
HORATIO  Let them come in. [Gentleman exits.] I do not
HORATIO  Look, my lord, it comes
HORATIO  My lord, I did
HORATIO  My lord, my lord
HORATIO  Nay, good my lord
HORATIO  Never believe it
HORATIO  No, by no means
HORATIO  Not a jot more, my lord
HORATIO  Not from his
HORATIO  Peace, who comes here
HORATIO  Propose the oath, my lord
HORATIO  Remember it, my lord
HORATIO  That can I
HORATIO  That is most
HORATIO  There's no offense, my lord
HORATIO  This lapwing runs away with the shell on his
HORATIO  Very well, my lord
HORATIO  Well, my lord
HORATIO  Well, sit we down
HORATIO  What are they that would speak with me
HORATIO  What is 't, my lord? We will
HORATIO  What is it you would see
HORATIO  What news, my lord
HORATIO  What's that, my lord
HORATIO  Why, what a king is this
HORATIO  You might have rhymed
HORATIO  You will lose, my lord
HORATIO [reads the letter]  Horatio, when thou shalt have
HORATIO, Hamlet's friend and confidant
HORATIO, [aside to Hamlet]  No, my good lord
HORATIO/MARCELLUS   Ay, by heaven, my lord
HORATIO/MARCELLUS   My lord, we will not
Ha! 'Swounds, I should take it! For it cannot be
Ha, ha, boy, sayst thou so? Art thou there
Had I but time (as this fell sergeant, Death
Had he been vanquisher, as, by the same comart
Had he the motive and the cue for passion
Had it th' ability of life to thank you
Had left the flushing in her galled eyes
Had made his course t' illume that part of heaven
Had witchcraft in 't. He grew unto his seat
Hadst thou thy wits and didst persuade revenge
Hamlet
Hamlet
Hamlet
Hamlet
Hamlet
Hamlet and Laertes are separated
Hamlet comes back; what would you undertake
Hamlet exits
Hamlet exits
Hamlet in madness hath Polonius slain
Hamlet is of the faction that is wronged
Hamlet the Dane
Hamlet, returned, shall know you are come home
Hamlet, this deed, for thine especial safety
Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended
Hamlet, with others, among them Voltemand and
Handing him a paper
Haply the seas, and countries different
Happy in that we are not overhappy
Hast ta'en with equal thanks; and blessed are those
Haste me to know 't, that I, with wings as swift
Hath clawed me in his clutch
Hath given me this. Now gather and surmise
Hath in the skirts of Norway here and there
Hath now this dread and black complexion smeared
Hath oped his ponderous and marble jaws
Hath sealed thee for herself. For thou hast been
Hath there been such a time (I would fain know
Hath turned itself on me. Lo, here I lie
Hath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave
Have I, my lord? I assure my good liege
Have after. To what issue will this come
Have burst their cerements; why the sepulcher
Have heaven and Earth together demonstrated
Have of your audience been most free and
Have we (as 'twere with a defeated joy
Have you any further trade with us
Have you forgot me
Have you so slander any moment leisure
Have you your father's leave? What says Polonius
Have, by the very cunning of the scene
Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes
Hazard so near 's as doth hourly grow
He answers
He closes thus: "I know the gentleman
He closes with you in this consequence
He digs up a skull
He digs up more skulls
He does confess he feels himself distracted
He drinks and then drops the pearl in the cup
He exits
He exits
He exits
He exits
He exits
He exits
He falls
He falls to such perusal of my face
He gives a paper
He hath not failed to pester us with message
He hath, my lord, of late made many tenders
He is dead and gone
He is gone, he is gone
He kills Polonius by thrusting a rapier
He likewise gives a frock or livery
He may approve our eyes and speak to it
He may not, as unvalued persons do
He never gave commandment for their death
He never will come again
He poured a flagon of Rhenish on my head once
He pulls Polonius' body from behind the arras
He puts Laertes' hand into Hamlet's
He raised a sigh so piteous and profound
He reads the letter
He reads.] To the celestial, and my soul's idol, the
He seemed to find his way without his eyes
He sheathes his sword
He should those bearers put to sudden death
He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice
He swore had neither motion, guard, nor eye
He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found
He that hath killed my king and whored my mother
He that thou knowest thine
He took me by the wrist and held me hard
He took my father grossly, full of bread
He was a man. Take him for all in all
He waxes desperate with imagination
He will come straight. Look you lay home to him
He writes
He's loved of the distracted multitude
Heaven make thee free of it. I follow thee
Heaven will direct it
Heavens make our presence and our practices
Help, ho
Her brother is in secret come from France
Her father and myself, lawful espials
Her maiden strewments, and the bringing home
Her obsequies have been as far enlarged
Here in the cheer and comfort of our eye
Here in the lobby
Here is your husband, like a mildewed ear
Here stooping to your clemency
Here was a gentleman of Normandy
Here's the commission. Read it at more leisure
Here's to thy health
Here's yet some liquor left.	[He picks up the cup
Here, Hamlet, take my napkin; rub thy brows
Here, as before, never, so help you mercy
Here, thou incestuous, murd'rous, damned Dane
Herod. Pray you, avoid it
Hey non nonny, nonny, hey nonny
Hic et ubique? Then we'll shift our ground
High on a stage be placed to the view
Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads
His access to me
His beard was as white as snow
His canon 'gainst self-slaughter! O God, God
His father's death and our o'erhasty marriage
His fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young Fortinbras
His form and cause conjoined, preaching to stones
His further gait herein, in that the levies
His greatness weighed, his will is not his own
His liberty is full of threats to all
His madness is poor Hamlet's enemy
His means of death, his obscure funeral
His nephew's levies, which to him appeared
His silence will sit drooping
His virtues else, be they as pure as grace
Hoist with his own petard; and 't shall go hard
Hold it a fashion and a toy in blood
Hold you the watch tonight
Holding a weak supposal of our worth
Holds such an enmity with blood of man
Honored, beloved; and haply one as kind
Horatio exits
Horatio exits
Horatio says 'tis but our fantasy
Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man
Horatio--or I do forget myself
How all occasions do inform against me
How are they escoted? Will they pursue the quality
How came he dead? I'll not be juggled with
How cheerfully on the false trail they cry
How dangerous is it that this man goes loose
How does my good Lord Hamlet
How does the Queen
How does your Honor for this many a day
How in my words somever she be shent
How is 't, my noble lord
How is it that the clouds still hang on you
How much I had to do to calm his rage
How now, Horatio, you tremble and look pale
How now, Ophelia, what's the matter
How now, a rat? Dead for a ducat, dead
How now, my lord, will the King hear this piece of
How now, what hath befallen
How now? What news
How say you, then? Would heart of man once think
How should I your true love know
How smart a lash that speech doth give my
How strange or odd some'er I bear myself
How these things came about. So shall you hear
How to forget that learning; but, sir, now
How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable
Howe'er my haps, my joys will ne'er begin
Hunts not the trail of policy so sure
Hyperion to a satyr; so loving to my mother
Hyperion's curls, the front of Jove himself
I am afeard you make a wanton of me
I am dead, Horatio.--Wretched queen, adieu
I am justly killed with mine own treachery
I am lost in it, my lord. But let him come
I am more an antique Roman than a Dane
I am sorry that with better heed and judgment
I am sorry they offend you, heartily
I am very glad to see you. [To Barnardo.] Good
I bought an unction of a mountebank
I can no more. The King, the King's to blame
I cannot dream of. I entreat you both
I cannot live to hear the news from England
I could a tale unfold whose lightest word
I could not but by her. The other motive
I dare damnation. To this point I stand
I dare not drink yet, madam--by and by
I did repel his letters and denied
I do believe you think what now you speak
I do beseech you give him leave to go
I do not fear it; I have seen you both
I do not know, my lord, what I should think
I do not set my life at a pin's fee
I do receive your offered love like love
I do repent; but heaven hath pleased it so
I doubt it is no other but the main
I doubt some foul play. Would the night were come
I ha 't
I had forgot! 'Tis so concluded on
I had my father's signet in my purse
I had not coted him. I feared he did but trifle
I have a daughter (have while she is mine
I have a speech o' fire that fain would blaze
I have a voice and precedent of peace
I have in quick determination
I have seen myself, and served against, the French
I have sent to seek him and to find the body
I have sent, and repair thou to me with as much speed
I have some rights of memory in this kingdom
I have sworn 't
I hear him coming
I hear him coming. Let's withdraw, my lord
I hold it fit that we shake hands and part
I hold my duty as I hold my soul
I hoped thou shouldst have been my Hamlet's wife
I know him well. He is the brooch indeed
I know my course. The spirit that I have seen
I like him not, nor stands it safe with us
I loved Ophelia. Forty thousand brothers
I loved you ever. But it is no matter
I loved your father, and we love ourself
I made to her in marriage, and to decline
I must be cruel only to be kind
I must to England, you know that
I once did hold it, as our statists do
I pray thee, good Horatio, wait upon him
I pray thee, stay with us. Go not to Wittenberg
I pray you now receive them
I pray you pass with your best violence
I pray you, go with me
I prithee take thy fingers from my throat
I prithee, do not mock me, fellow student
I prithee, when thou seest that act afoot
I saw him enter such a house of sale
I saw him once. He was a goodly king
I saw him yesterday," or "th' other day
I say, away!--Go on. I'll follow thee
I see a cherub that sees them. But come, for
I shall in all my best obey you, madam
I shall not look upon his like again
I shall the effect of this good lesson keep
I should have fatted all the region kites
I stand aloof and will no reconcilement
I stand in pause where I shall first begin
I stay too long. But here my father comes
I thank you. Keep the door. [Followers exit.] O, thou
I think I hear them.--Stand ho! Who is there
I think it be no other but e'en so
I think it was to see my mother's wedding
I thought thy bride-bed to have decked, sweet maid
I took thee for thy better. Take thy fortune
I will be brief. Your noble son is mad
I will bestow him and will answer well
I will go pray
I will requite your loves. So fare you well
I will speak daggers to her, but use none
I will take my leave of you
I will, my lord; I pray you pardon me.	[She drinks
I would fain prove so. But what might you think
I would not hear your enemy say so
I would not, in plain terms, from this time forth
I your commission will forthwith dispatch
I'll be with you straight. Go a little before
I'll be your foil, Laertes; in mine ignorance
I'll blessing beg of you. For this same lord
I'll board him presently. O, give me leave
I'll call upon you ere you go to bed
I'll cross it though it blast me.--Stay, illusion
I'll do 't. Dost thou come here to whine
I'll leave you till night. You are welcome to Elsinore
I'll lug the guts into the neighbor room
I'll play this bout first. Set it by awhile
I'll rant as well as thou
I'll speak to it, though hell itself should gape
I'll tent him to the quick. If he do blench
I'll visit you
I'll wipe away all trivial, fond records
I, his sole son, do this same villain send
If 't be th' affliction of his love or no
If Hamlet from himself be ta'en away
If Hamlet give the first or second hit
If I had played the desk or table-book
If aught of woe or wonder, cease your search
If by direct or by collateral hand
If circumstances lead me, I will find
If damned custom have not brazed it so
If he by chance escape your venomed stuck
If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing
If his chief good and market of his time
If it assume my noble father's person
If it be made of penetrable stuff
If it be so (as so 'tis put on me
If not, I will gain nothing but my shame and the odd
If one could match you. The 'scrimers of their
If she unmask her beauty to the moon
If that his Majesty would aught with us
If there be any good thing to be done
If this did blast in proof. Soft, let me see
If thou art privy to thy country's fate
If thou canst mutine in a matron's bones
If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart
If thou didst ever thy dear father love
If thou hast any sound or use of voice
If thou hast nature in thee, bear it not
If with too credent ear you list his songs
If you desire to know the certainty
If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus
If you have hitherto concealed this sight
If you opposed them. Sir, this report of his
If, once a widow, ever I be wife
Imperious Caesar, dead and turned to clay
Importing Denmark's health and England's too
Importing health and graveness. Two months since
Importing the surrender of those lands
In Denmark's crown have worn. Give me the cups
In censure of his seeming
In dreadful secrecy impart they did
In ear and ear. O, my dear Gertrude, this
In equal scale weighing delight and dole
In filial obligation for some term
In further evil
In general synod take away her power
In going back to school in Wittenberg
In her excellent white bosom, these, etc
In his true nature, and we ourselves compelled
In honorable fashion
In hugger-mugger to inter him; poor Ophelia
In mincing with his sword her husband's limbs
In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart
In neither aught, or in extremity
In noise so rude against me
In obstinate condolement is a course
In second husband let me be accurst
In that and all things will we show our duty
In the corrupted currents of this world
In the dead waste and middle of the night
In the most high and palmy state of Rome
In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed
In the same figure like the King that's dead
In thee there is not half an hour's life
In thews and bulk, but, as this temple waxes
In this distracted globe. Remember thee
In what particular thought to work I know not
In which the majesty of buried Denmark
In youth when I did love, did love
Indeed distract; her mood will needs be pitied
Indeed would make one think there might be
Indeed, I heard it not. It then draws near the season
Indeed, my lord, it followed hard upon
Indeed, to speak feelingly of him, he is the card or
Indeed, without an oath, I'll make an end on 't
Infects unseen. Confess yourself to heaven
Inquire me first what Danskers are in Paris
Into a tow'ring passion
Into the chapel. I pray you, haste in this
Into the madness wherein now he raves
Is apoplexed; for madness would not err
Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose
Is by a forged process of my death
Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried
Is it not monstrous that this player here
Is it your own inclining? Is it a free visitation
Is not more ugly to the thing that helps it
Is not this something more than fantasy
Is not to stir without great argument
Is now most still, most secret, and most grave
Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought
Is strict in his arrest), O, I could tell you
Is the great love the general gender bear him
Is the main motive of our preparations
Is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens
Is thought-sick at the act
Is very cunning in
It beckons you to go away with it
It came to pass, as most like it was
It could not move thus
It did me yeoman's service. Wilt thou know
It faded on the crowing of the cock
It fits your wisdom so far to believe it
It had been so with us, had we been there
It hath the primal eldest curse upon 't
It is "adieu, adieu, remember me
It is a damned ghost that we have seen
It is a nipping and an eager air
It is a poison tempered by himself
It is an honest ghost--that let me tell you
It is here, Hamlet. Hamlet, thou art slain
It is most retrograde to our desire
It is not, nor it cannot come to good
It is offended
It is our trick; nature her custom holds
It is the poisoned cup. It is too late
It lifted up its head and did address
It may be death
It must be shortly known to him from England
It sends some precious instance of itself
It shall as level to your judgment 'pear
It shall do well. But yet do I believe
It shows a will most incorrect to heaven
It spills itself in fearing to be spilt
It spreads his arms
It warms the very sickness in my heart
It was about to speak when the cock crew
It was against your Highness. Whereat, grieved
It was as I have seen it in his life
It waves me forth again. I'll follow it
It waves me still.--Go on, I'll follow thee
It waves you to a more removed ground
It will be laid to us, whose providence
It will be short. The interim's mine
It will but skin and film the ulcerous place
It will not speak. Then I will follow it
It would be spoke to
Itself to motion, like as it would speak
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING
KING  'Tis Hamlet's character. "Naked
KING  A Norman
KING  Alas, alas
KING  At supper where
KING  Attend
KING  Ay, Hamlet
KING  But how hath she received his love
KING  But where is he
KING  Conceit upon her father
KING  Dead
KING  From Hamlet? Who brought them
KING  Gertrude, do not drink
KING  Give me some light. Away
KING  Good Laertes
KING  Have you heard the argument? Is there no
KING  He made confession of you
KING  How do you, pretty lady
KING  How fares our cousin Hamlet
KING  How long hath she been thus
KING  How may we try it further
KING  I do not think 't
KING  I have nothing with this answer, Hamlet. These
KING  If it be so, Laertes
KING  It falls right
KING  It likes us well
KING  It shall be so
KING  Laertes, you shall hear
KING  Let him demand his fill
KING  Let's follow, Gertrude
KING  Let's further think of this
KING  Not that I know
KING  Now, Hamlet, where's Polonius
KING  O Gertrude, come away
KING  O heavy deed
KING  O, for two special reasons
KING  O, he is mad, Laertes
KING  Part them. They are incensed
KING  Pluck them asunder
KING  Pretty Ophelia
KING  She swoons to see them bleed
KING  So you shall
KING  Sweet Gertrude, leave us too
KING  Thanks, dear my lord
KING  The doors are broke
KING  The very same
KING  Thy loving father, Hamlet
KING  We will try it
KING  What do you call the play
KING  What dost thou mean by this
KING  What is the cause, Laertes
KING  What, Gertrude? How does Hamlet
KING  Where is Polonius
KING  Who shall stay you
KING  Why, now you speak
KING  Will you know them, then
KING CLAUDIUS, brother to the late King Hamlet
KING, [advancing with Polonius
KING, [aside
KING, [aside]  O, 'tis too true
KING, [rising
KING, [to Attendants.]  Go, seek him there
KING, [to Queen]  Do you think 'tis this
Keeps wassail, and the swagg'ring upspring reels
King and Queen exit with Attendants
King and Queen molt no feather. I have of late, but
King best service in the end. He keeps them like an
King hold his purpose, I will win for him, an I can
King's jester
King," "Father," "Royal Dane." O, answer me
King. They have letters for him. Ere we were two days
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES
LAERTES  A Norman was 't
LAERTES  A document in madness: thoughts and remembrance
LAERTES  Alas, then she is drowned
LAERTES  Ay, my lord
LAERTES  Come, my lord.	[They play
LAERTES  Come, one for me
LAERTES  Do you see this, O God
LAERTES  Drowned? O, where
LAERTES  Farewell.	[Laertes exits
LAERTES  Have at you now
LAERTES  He is justly served
LAERTES  How now, what noise is that
LAERTES  I am satisfied in nature
LAERTES  I pray you, give me leave
LAERTES  I will do 't
LAERTES  It well appears. But tell me
LAERTES  Know you the hand
LAERTES  Lay her i' th' earth
LAERTES  Let this be so
LAERTES  My dread lord
LAERTES  My lord, I will be ruled
LAERTES  My will, not all the world
LAERTES  No
LAERTES  None but his enemies
LAERTES  O, fear me not
LAERTES  O, treble woe
LAERTES  Say you so? Come on.	[Play
LAERTES  Think it no more
LAERTES  This nothing's more than matter
LAERTES  To cut his throat i' th' church
LAERTES  Well, again
LAERTES  What ceremony else
LAERTES  What ceremony else
LAERTES  What out of this, my lord
LAERTES  What part is that, my lord
LAERTES  Where is my father
LAERTES  Why ask you this
LAERTES  You mock me, sir
LAERTES, [aside
LAERTES, [coming out of the grave
LAERTES, [to Claudius
LAERTES, her brother
LORD  My lord, his Majesty commended him to you by
LORD  The King and Queen and all are coming down
LORD  The Queen desires you to use some gentle
LUCIANUS
Laertes
Laertes shall be king! Laertes king
Laertes wounds Hamlet. Then in scuffling they change
Laertes, I must commune with your grief
Laertes, was your father dear to you
Larded all with sweet flowers
Larded with many several sorts of reasons
Last, and as much containing as all these
Lay not that flattering unction to your soul
Leaps in the grave
Leave us.	[Messenger exits
Led by a delicate and tender prince
Lends the tongue vows. These blazes, daughter
Lest with this piteous action you convert
Let Hercules himself do what he may
Let all the battlements their ordnance fire
Let come what comes, only I'll be revenged
Let him go, Gertrude. Do not fear our person
Let his queen-mother all alone entreat him
Let in the maid, that out a maid
Let it be tenable in your silence still
Let me be cruel, not unnatural
Let me be no assistant for a state
Let me not burst in ignorance, but tell
Let me not think on 't; frailty, thy name is woman
Let my disclaiming from a purposed evil
Let not the royal bed of Denmark be
Let not thy mother lose her prayers, Hamlet
Let shame say what it will. When these are gone
Let the birds fly, and like the famous ape
Let the bloat king tempt you again to bed
Let us impart what we have seen tonight
Let's do 't, I pray, and I this morning know
Let's follow. 'Tis not fit thus to obey him
Like John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my cause
Like Niobe, all tears--why she, even she
Like a good child and a true gentleman
Like quills upon the fearful porpentine
Like sweet bells jangled, out of time and harsh
Like to a murd'ring piece, in many places
Like wonder-wounded hearers? This is I
Lives almost by his looks, and for myself
Look here upon this picture and on this
Look thou character. Give thy thoughts no tongue
Look to 't, I charge you. Come your ways
Look where he goes even now out at the portal
Looking before and after, gave us not
Looks he not like the King? Mark it, Horatio
Lord Hamlet is a prince, out of thy star
Lord Hamlet, with his doublet all unbraced
Lord Such-a-one's horse when he went to beg it
Lord, Horatio, this three years I have took note of
Lords attendant with the King's guard carrying
Lordship would vouchsafe the answer
Lost by his father, with all bonds of law
Love? His affections do not that way tend
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS
MARCELLUS  'Tis gone
MARCELLUS  'Tis gone and will not answer
MARCELLUS  And liegemen to the Dane
MARCELLUS  Holla, Barnardo
MARCELLUS  Illo, ho, ho, my lord
MARCELLUS  Is it not like the King
MARCELLUS  Look with what courteous action
MARCELLUS  Lord Hamlet
MARCELLUS  My good lord
MARCELLUS  Nay, let's follow him
MARCELLUS  No, it is struck
MARCELLUS  Nor I, my lord
MARCELLUS  Nor I, my lord, in faith
MARCELLUS  Speak to it, Horatio
MARCELLUS  We have sworn, my lord, already
MARCELLUS, [to Horatio
MESSENGER
MESSENGER  Letters, my lord, from
MESSENGER  Save yourself, my lord
Mad as the sea and wind when both contend
Mad for thy love
Mad let us grant him then, and now remains
Mad" call I it, for, to define true madness
Madam, I swear I use no art at all
Madam, it so fell out that certain players
Madness in great ones must not unwatched go
Majesty shall have tribute on me. The adventurous
Majesty, it is the breathing time of day with me. Let
Make Ossa like a wart. Nay, an thou 'lt mouth
Make choice of whom your wisest friends you will
Make mad the guilty and appall the free
Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their
Make up my sum. What wilt thou do for her
Make us again count o'er ere love be done
Make you to ravel all this matter out
Makes mouths at the invisible event
Makes us traduced and taxed of other nations
Makes vow before his uncle never more
Making night hideous, and we fools of nature
Man and wife is one flesh, and so, my mother
Marcellus
Marcellus and Barnardo, on their watch
March within
Mark me
Mark the encounter. If he love her not
Mark you, your party in converse, him you would
Marry, I will teach you. Think yourself a baby
Marry, well said, very well said. Look you, sir
May be a devil, and the devil hath power
May do t' express his love and friending to you
May fit us to our shape. If this should fail
May give his saying deed, which is no further
May one be pardoned and retain th' offense
May sweep to my revenge
May violets spring! I tell thee, churlish priest
Meantime, we thank you for your well-took labor
Meet what I would have well and it destroy
Methought it was very sweet
Might stop a hole to keep the wind away
Might, by the sovereign power you have of us
Millions of acres on us, till our ground
Mine and my father's death come not upon thee
More grief to hide than hate to utter love
More honored in the breach than the observance
More relative than this. The play's the thing
More than his father's death, that thus hath put him
More than in words
Moreover that we much did long to see you
Most constantly
Most fair return of greetings and desires
Most free in his reply
Most generous, and free from all contriving
Most holy and religious fear it is
Most humbly do I take my leave, my lord
Most lazar-like, with vile and loathsome crust
Most like. It harrows me with fear and wonder
Most necessary 'tis that we forget
Most throughly for my father
Most welcome home
Mother, good night indeed. This counselor
Mother, you have my father much offended
Much heat and him. I'll silence me even here
Murder most foul, as in the best it is
Must I remember? Why, she would hang on him
Must give us pause. There's the respect
Must render up myself
Must there no more be done
Must, like a whore, unpack my heart with words
My crown, mine own ambition, and my queen
My custom always of the afternoon
My father's brother, but no more like my father
My father's spirit--in arms! All is not well
My father, in his habit as he lived
My father--methinks I see my father
My fault is past. But, O, what form of prayer
My fears forgetting manners) to unfold
My head should be struck off
My honored lord, you know right well you did
My liege, and madam, to expostulate
My lord, I came to see your father's funeral
My lord, I have
My lord, I have remembrances of yours
My lord, I think I saw him yesternight
My lord, I'll hit him now
My lord, as I was sewing in my closet
My lord, he hath importuned me with love
My lord, he's going to his mother's closet
My lord, the King your father
My lord, upon the platform where we watch
My mother. Father and mother is man and wife
My necessaries are embarked. Farewell
My news shall be the fruit to that great feast
My operant powers their functions leave to do
My pulse as yours doth temperately keep time
My sea-gown scarfed about me, in the dark
My soul is full of discord and dismay
My spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguile
My stern effects. Then what I have to do
My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent
My tables--meet it is I set it down
My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France
My thoughts be bloody or be nothing worth
My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites
My too much changed son.--Go, some of you
My virtue or my plague, be it either which
My words fly up, my thoughts remain below
Nature is fine in love, and, where 'tis fine
Nay, answer me. Stand and unfold yourself
Nay, come, let's go together
Nay, then I'll set those to you that can speak
Nay, very pale
Neither a borrower nor a lender be
Neptune's salt wash and Tellus' orbed ground
Never departed more
Never make known what you have seen tonight
Never to rise again. Thy mother's poisoned
Never to speak of this that you have heard
Never to speak of this that you have seen
New-lighted on a heaven-kissing hill
Next, your son gone, and he most violent author
Niggard of question, but of our demands
No
No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm
No hat upon his head, his stockings fouled
No jocund health that Denmark drinks today
No med'cine in the world can do thee good
No more
No more to undertake it, I will work him
No more, sweet Hamlet
No more--and by a sleep to say we end
No noble rite nor formal ostentation
No place indeed should murder sanctuarize
No reck'ning made, but sent to my account
No traveler returns, puzzles the will
No trophy, sword, nor hatchment o'er his bones
No, in despite of sense and secrecy
No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp
No, my good lord, but as you did command
No, no, he is dead
No, no, the drink, the drink! O, my dear Hamlet
No, nor the fruitful river in the eye
No, not I. I never gave you aught
No, not to stay the grinding of the ax
None wed the second but who killed the first
Nor Earth to me give food, nor heaven light
Nor any unproportioned thought his act
Nor customary suits of solemn black
Nor do we find him forward to be sounded
Nor sense to ecstasy was ne'er so thralled
Nor shall you do my ear that violence
Nor the dejected havior of the visage
Nor thine on me.	[Dies
Nor what he spake, though it lacked form a little
Nor will it yield to Norway or the Pole
Nor windy suspiration of forced breath
Not I, my lord, by heaven
Not of that dye which their investments show
Not shriving time allowed
Not so, my lord; I am too much in the sun
Not that I think you did not love your father
Not this by no means that I bid you do
Not when I saw 't
Nothing at all; yet all that is I see
Now I am alone
Now cracks a noble heart. Good night, sweet prince
Now falls on Priam
Now fear I this will give it start again
Now follows that you know. Young Fortinbras
Now for ourself and for this time of meeting
Now is he total gules, horridly tricked
Now might I do it pat, now he is a-praying
Now must your conscience my acquittance seal
Now out of this
Now pile your dust upon the quick and dead
Now see that noble and most sovereign reason
Now the King drinks to Hamlet." Come, begin
Now wears his crown
Now what my love is, proof hath made you know
O Gertrude, Gertrude
O God, Horatio, what a wounded name
O God, a beast that wants discourse of reason
O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain
O Hamlet, what a falling off was there
O all you host of heaven! O Earth! What else
O day and night, but this is wondrous strange
O dear Ophelia, I am ill at these numbers. I have not
O farewell, honest soldier. Who hath relieved
O heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever
O heat, dry up my brains! Tears seven times salt
O heavens, is 't possible a young maid's wits
O heavy burden
O horrible, O horrible, most horrible
O limed soul, that, struggling to be free
O most pernicious woman
O vengeance
O villain, villain, smiling, damned villain
O villainy! Ho! Let the door be locked.	[Osric exits
O wicked wit and gifts, that have the power
O wretched state! O bosom black as death
O'er this solidity and compound mass
O'er which his melancholy sits on brood
O'er whom his very madness, like some ore
O'erbears your officers. The rabble call him "lord
O'ermaster 't as you may. And now, good friends
O, I am slain
O, O, O, O!	[Dies
O, a pit of clay for to be made
O, here they come
O, methought there--a--was nothing--a--meet
O, my dear lord
O, my lord, my lord, I have been so affrighted
O, my offense is rank, it smells to heaven
O, say
O, speak
O, speak of that! That do I long to hear
O, step between her and her fighting soul
O, that that earth which kept the world in awe
O, that this too, too sullied flesh would melt
O, the recorders! Let me see one. [He takes a
O, this is counter, you false Danish dogs
O, this is the poison of deep grief. It springs
O, throw away the worser part of it
O, what a noble mind is here o'erthrown
O, what a rash and bloody deed is this
O, what a rogue and peasant slave am I
O, yes, my lord, he wore his beaver up
O, yet defend me, friends! I am but hurt
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA
OPHELIA  'Tis brief, my lord
OPHELIA  'Tis in my memory locked
OPHELIA  At home, my lord
OPHELIA  Ay, my lord
OPHELIA  Ay, my lord
OPHELIA  Belike this show imports the argument of the
OPHELIA  Could beauty, my lord, have better commerce
OPHELIA  Do you doubt that
OPHELIA  Good my lord
OPHELIA  Heavenly powers, restore him
OPHELIA  I hope all will be well. We must be patient
OPHELIA  I shall obey, my lord
OPHELIA  I think nothing, my lord
OPHELIA  I was the more deceived
OPHELIA  Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so
OPHELIA  Madam, I wish it may
OPHELIA  My lord
OPHELIA  My lord, I do not know
OPHELIA  Nay, 'tis twice two months, my lord
OPHELIA  No more but so
OPHELIA  No, my lord
OPHELIA  O, help him, you sweet heavens
OPHELIA  Pray let's have no words of this, but when
OPHELIA  Pray you, mark
OPHELIA  Say you? Nay, pray you, mark
OPHELIA  Still better and worse
OPHELIA  The King rises
OPHELIA  There's fennel for you, and columbines
OPHELIA  There's rosemary, that's for remembrance
OPHELIA  Well, God dild you. They say the owl was a
OPHELIA  What is, my lord
OPHELIA  What means this, my lord
OPHELIA  What means your Lordship
OPHELIA  Will he tell us what this show meant
OPHELIA  You are as good as a chorus, my lord
OPHELIA  You are keen, my lord, you are keen
OPHELIA  You are merry, my lord
OPHELIA  You are naught, you are naught. I'll mark the
OPHELIA  You must sing "A-down a-down"--and you
OPHELIA [sings
OPHELIA [sings
OPHELIA [sings
OPHELIA [sings
OSRIC
OSRIC
OSRIC  A hit, a very palpable hit
OSRIC  Ay, my good lord
OSRIC  Exceedingly, my lord; it is very sultry, as
OSRIC  How is 't, Laertes
OSRIC  I commend my duty to your Lordship
OSRIC  I know you are not ignorant
OSRIC  I mean, my lord, the opposition of your person
OSRIC  I mean, sir, for his weapon. But in the imputation
OSRIC  I thank your Lordship; it is very hot
OSRIC  It is indifferent cold, my lord, indeed
OSRIC  Look to the Queen there, ho
OSRIC  Nay, good my lord, for my ease, in good faith
OSRIC  Nothing neither way
OSRIC  Of Laertes
OSRIC  Rapier and dagger
OSRIC  Shall I deliver you e'en so
OSRIC  Sir
OSRIC  Sweet lord, if your Lordship were at leisure, I
OSRIC  The King, sir, hath laid, sir, that in a dozen
OSRIC  The King, sir, hath wagered with him six Barbary
OSRIC  The carriages, sir, are the hangers
OSRIC  You are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes
OSRIC  Your Lordship is right welcome back to
OSRIC  Your Lordship speaks most infallibly of him
OTHER  "Who builds stronger than a mason, a shipwright
OTHER  But is this law
OTHER  Go to
OTHER  I tell thee she is. Therefore make her grave
OTHER  Marry, now I can tell
OTHER  Mass, I cannot tell
OTHER  Nay, but hear you, goodman delver
OTHER  The gallows-maker; for that frame outlives a
OTHER  Was he a gentleman
OTHER  Why, 'tis found so
OTHER  Why, he had none
OTHER  Will you ha' the truth on 't? If this had not been
Observe his inclination in yourself
Observe my uncle. If his occulted guilt
Occasion smiles upon a second leave
Of Hamlet's transformation, so call it
Of Hamlet's wildness. So shall I hope your virtues
Of Jove himself, and now reigns here
Of accidental judgments, casual slaughters
Of all their conference. If she find him not
Of bell and burial
Of blue Olympus
Of carnal, bloody, and unnatural acts
Of crowflowers, nettles, daisies, and long purples
Of deaths put on by cunning and forced cause
Of each new-hatched, unfledged courage. Beware
Of entrance to a quarrel, but, being in
Of general assault
Of habits devil, is angel yet in this
Of him that brought them
Of his affection to me
Of his behavior
Of his own just remove; the people muddied
Of his true state
Of impious stubbornness. 'Tis unmanly grief
Of life, of crown, of queen at once dispatched
Of man and country
Of mighty opposites
Of mine own eyes
Of my true mother
Of reverend Priam, seemed i' th' air to stick
Of that I shall have also cause to speak
Of the unworthiest siege
Of these dilated articles allow
Of thinking too precisely on th' event
Of this his nephew's purpose, to suppress
Of this posthaste and rummage in the land
Of those effects for which I did the murder
Of unimproved mettle hot and full
Of violent birth, but poor validity
Of your dear father, is 't writ in your revenge
Of your precedent lord; a vice of kings
Offense's gilded hand may shove by justice
Oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason
Oh, ho
Old grandsire Priam seeks
On Fortinbras, which he, in brief, obeys
On Fortinbras; he has my dying voice
On Fortune's cap, we are not the very button
On Mars's armor, forged for proof eterne
On him, on him! Look you how pale he glares
On plots and errors happen
On such regards of safety and allowance
On the instant, they got clear of our ship; so I alone
On wholesome life usurp immediately
One fair daughter, and no more
One scene of it comes near the circumstance
One woe doth tread upon another's heel
One word more, good lady
Ophelia, walk you here.--Gracious, so please you
Or "If we list to speak," or "There be an if they
Or (not to crack the wind of the poor phrase
Or I could make a prologue to my brains
Or are you like the painting of a sorrow
Or but a sickly part of one true sense
Or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase
Or by some habit that too much o'erleavens
Or ever I had seen that day, Horatio
Or for some frontier
Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb
Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life
Or in th' incestuous pleasure of his bed
Or is it some abuse and no such thing
Or like a creature native and endued
Or looked upon this love with idle sight
Or lose your heart or your chaste treasure open
Or my dear Majesty your queen here, think
Or not at all
Or paddling in your neck with his damned fingers
Or pardoned being down? Then I'll look up
Or quit in answer of the third exchange
Or such ambiguous giving-out, to note
Or that the Everlasting had not fixed
Or then, or then, with such or such), "and as you
Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
Or to take arms against a sea of troubles
Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff
Or with a little shuffling, you may choose
Or you deny me right. Go but apart
Or, rather say, the cause of this defect
Osric to put on his hat
Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son
Our crown, our life, and all that we call ours
Our hasty sending. Something have you heard
Our indiscretion sometime serves us well
Our purpose may hold there.--But stay, what
Our son shall win
Our sovereign process, which imports at full
Our state to be disjoint and out of frame
Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own
Our wills and fates do so contrary run
Out of his brows
Out of his subject; and we here dispatch
Out of my weakness and my melancholy
Out of the shot and danger of desire
Out, out, thou strumpet Fortune! All you gods
Over his kingdom. You know the rendezvous
Over the nasty sty
PLAYER  I hope we have reformed that indifferently
PLAYER  I warrant your Honor
PLAYER KING
PLAYER KING
PLAYER KING
PLAYER KING
PLAYER QUEEN
PLAYER QUEEN
PLAYER QUEEN
PLAYER QUEEN  O, confound the rest
PLAYER QUEEN  Sleep rock thy brain
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS
POLONIUS  'Fore God, my lord, well spoken, with good
POLONIUS  'Tis most true
POLONIUS  And let him ply his music
POLONIUS  And the Queen too, and that presently
POLONIUS  And then, sir, does he this, he does--what
POLONIUS  Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing
POLONIUS  By th' Mass, and 'tis like a camel indeed
POLONIUS  Come, sirs
POLONIUS  Do you know me, my lord
POLONIUS  Fare you well, my lord
POLONIUS  Give o'er the play
POLONIUS  God be wi' you. Fare you well
POLONIUS  Honest, my lord
POLONIUS  I did enact Julius Caesar. I was killed i' th
POLONIUS  I have, my lord
POLONIUS  I mean the matter that you read, my lord
POLONIUS  I will say so
POLONIUS  If you call me "Jephthah," my lord: I have a
POLONIUS  Indeed, that's out of the air. [Aside.] How
POLONIUS  It is backed like a weasel
POLONIUS  Lights, lights, lights
POLONIUS  Look whe'er he has not turned his color and
POLONIUS  Marry, sir, here's my drift
POLONIUS  Marry, well bethought
POLONIUS  My lord, I have news to tell you
POLONIUS  My lord, I will use them according to their
POLONIUS  My lord, the Queen would speak with you
POLONIUS  Not I, my lord
POLONIUS  That did I, my lord, and was accounted a
POLONIUS  That hath made him mad
POLONIUS  That's good. "Mobled queen" is good
POLONIUS  That's very true, my lord
POLONIUS  The actors are come hither, my lord
POLONIUS  The best actors in the world, either for
POLONIUS  This business is well ended
POLONIUS  This is too long
POLONIUS  Upon my honor
POLONIUS  Very like a whale
POLONIUS  Well be with you, gentlemen
POLONIUS  What a treasure had he, my lord
POLONIUS  What do you think of me
POLONIUS  What follows then, my lord
POLONIUS  What is the matter, my lord
POLONIUS  What said he
POLONIUS  Wherefore should you do this
POLONIUS  With what, i' th' name of God
POLONIUS  You go to seek the Lord Hamlet. There he is
POLONIUS, [aside]  How say you by that? Still harping on
POLONIUS, [aside]  Still on my daughter
POLONIUS, [aside]  Though this be madness, yet there is
POLONIUS, [behind the arras
POLONIUS, [behind the arras]  What ho! Help
POLONIUS, [to the King]  Oh, ho! Do you mark that
POLONIUS, father of Ophelia and Laertes, councillor to King Claudius
PROLOGUE
Pale as his shirt, his knees knocking each other
Passing through nature to eternity
Pays homage to us), thou mayst not coldly set
Peace, break thee off! Look where it comes again
Perchance 'twill walk again
Perpend
Pinch wanton on your cheek, call you his mouse
Pity me not, but lend thy serious hearing
Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the liberty
Play something like the murder of my father
Player Queen exits
Players exit
Players exit
Players who take the roles of Prologue, Player King, Player Queen, and Lucianus in <title>The Murder of Gonzago</title
Pleasant and helpful to him
Plucks off my beard and blows it in my face
Pointing to Polonius
Polonius
Polonius exits
Polonius exits
Polonius exits
Polonius hides behind the arras
Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, and other
Popped in between th' election and my hopes
Possess it merely. That it should come to this
Pours the poison in his ears
Pray you, be round with him
Pray you, love, remember. And there is pansies
Prepare to play
Priam's slaughter. If it live in your memory, begin at
Prithee say on. He's for a jig or a tale of bawdry, or
Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell
Provincial roses on my razed shoes, get me a
Pulled the poor wretch from her melodious lay
Purpose is but the slave to memory
Pursued my life
Put your dread pleasures more into command
Pyrrhus at Priam drives, in rage strikes wide
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN
QUEEN  Alack
QUEEN  Alack, what noise is this
QUEEN  Alas, he's mad
QUEEN  Alas, how is 't with you
QUEEN  Alas, look here, my lord
QUEEN  Ay me, what act
QUEEN  Ay, amen
QUEEN  Calmly, good Laertes
QUEEN  Came this from Hamlet to her
QUEEN  Come hither, my dear Hamlet, sit by me
QUEEN  Come, let me wipe thy face
QUEEN  Did he receive you well
QUEEN  Did you assay him to any pastime
QUEEN  Drowned, drowned
QUEEN  For love of God, forbear him
QUEEN  Hamlet! Hamlet
QUEEN  He's fat and scant of breath
QUEEN  How fares my lord
QUEEN  How now, Ophelia
QUEEN  I shall obey you
QUEEN  I will not speak with her
QUEEN  I'll warrant you. Fear me not. Withdraw
QUEEN  If it be
QUEEN  It may be, very like
QUEEN  Let her come in.	[Gentleman exits
QUEEN  More matter with less art
QUEEN  Nay, but Ophelia
QUEEN  No more
QUEEN  No, nothing but ourselves
QUEEN  O Hamlet, speak no more
QUEEN  O me, what hast thou done
QUEEN  O my son, what theme
QUEEN  O, speak to me no more
QUEEN  So he does indeed
QUEEN  Sweets to the sweet, farewell
QUEEN  The lady doth protest too much, methinks
QUEEN  This is mere madness
QUEEN  To whom do you speak this
QUEEN  What shall I do
QUEEN  What would she have
QUEEN GERTRUDE, widow of King Hamlet, now married to Claudius
Quarreling, drabbing--you may go so far
Queen exits
Queen, the Council, as Polonius, and his son Laertes
Quoth she "Before you tumbled me
REYNALDO
REYNALDO  As gaming, my lord
REYNALDO  At "closes in the consequence," at "friend
REYNALDO  Ay, my lord, I would know that
REYNALDO  Ay, very well, my lord
REYNALDO  But, my good lord
REYNALDO  Good my lord
REYNALDO  I shall, my lord
REYNALDO  I will, my lord
REYNALDO  My lord, I did intend it
REYNALDO  My lord, that would dishonor him
REYNALDO  Very good, my lord
REYNALDO  Well, my lord
REYNALDO, servant to Polonius
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ
ROSENCRANTZ  Ay, my lord.	[They exit
ROSENCRANTZ  Ay, my lord. They stay upon your
ROSENCRANTZ  Ay, that they do, my lord--Hercules
ROSENCRANTZ  Believe what
ROSENCRANTZ  Both your Majesties
ROSENCRANTZ  Even those you were wont to take such
ROSENCRANTZ  Faith, there has been much to-do on
ROSENCRANTZ  Good my lord
ROSENCRANTZ  Good my lord, what is your cause of
ROSENCRANTZ  Haply he is the second time come to
ROSENCRANTZ  Ho! Bring in the lord
ROSENCRANTZ  How can that be, when you have the
ROSENCRANTZ  I think their inhibition comes by the
ROSENCRANTZ  I understand you not, my lord
ROSENCRANTZ  Most like a gentleman
ROSENCRANTZ  My lord, there was no such stuff in my
ROSENCRANTZ  My lord, you must tell us where the
ROSENCRANTZ  My lord, you once did love me
ROSENCRANTZ  My most dear lord
ROSENCRANTZ  Nay, their endeavor keeps in the wonted
ROSENCRANTZ  Neither, my lord
ROSENCRANTZ  No, indeed are they not
ROSENCRANTZ  None, my lord, but that the world's
ROSENCRANTZ  She desires to speak with you in her
ROSENCRANTZ  Take you me for a sponge, my lord
ROSENCRANTZ  Then is the world one
ROSENCRANTZ  Then thus she says: your behavior hath
ROSENCRANTZ  To think, my lord, if you delight not in
ROSENCRANTZ  To visit you, my lord, no other occasion
ROSENCRANTZ  To what end, my lord
ROSENCRANTZ  Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy
ROSENCRANTZ  We think not so, my lord
ROSENCRANTZ  We will haste us
ROSENCRANTZ  What, my lord
ROSENCRANTZ  Why, then, your ambition makes it one
ROSENCRANTZ  Will 't please you go, my lord
ROSENCRANTZ, [to Guildenstern]  What say you
ROSENCRANTZ, [to Polonius]  God save you, sir
ROSENCRANTZ/GUILDENSTERN  We'll wait upon you
Rankly abused. But know, thou noble youth
Reads.] High and mighty, you shall know I am set
Rebellious hell
Rebellious to his arm, lies where it falls
Receives rebuke from Norway, and, in fine
Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless
Repast them with my blood
Repent what's past, avoid what is to come
Repugnant to command. Unequal matched
Requite him for your father
Resembles that it was. What it should be
Respeaking earthly thunder. Come away
Rest, rest, perturbed spirit.--So, gentlemen
Revenge his foul and most unnatural murder
Revenge should have no bounds. But, good Laertes
Revisits thus the glimpses of the moon
Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind
Richer than that which four successive kings
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern exit
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern exit
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern exit
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern exit
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern exit
Rough-hew them how we will
Roughly awake, I here proclaim was madness
Run barefoot up and down, threat'ning the flames
Running it thus) you'll tender me a fool
SAILOR  God bless you, sir
SAILOR  He shall, sir, an 't please Him. There's a letter
Sailors
Sailors, my lord, they say. I saw them not
Save me and hover o'er me with your wings
Say, Voltemand, what from our brother Norway
Say, why is this? Wherefore? What should we do
Sblood, there is something in this more than natural
Scene 1
Scene 1
Scene 1
Scene 1
Scene 1
Scene 2
Scene 2
Scene 2
Scene 2
Scene 2
Scene 3
Scene 3
Scene 3
Scene 4
Scene 4
Scene 4
Scene 5
Scene 5
Scene 6
Scene 7
Season your admiration for a while
See what a grace was seated on this brow
Seek for thy noble father in the dust
Seem to me all the uses of this world
Seeming to feel this blow, with flaming top
Seems," madam? Nay, it is. I know not "seems
Set me the stoups of wine upon that table
Set your entreatments at a higher rate
Shall I strike it with my partisan
Shall in the general censure take corruption
Shall we to th' court? For, by my fay, I cannot
Shall you my son. You have me, have you not
Shards, flints, and pebbles should be thrown on
Sharked up a list of lawless resolutes
She is a strumpet. What news
She is so conjunctive to my life and soul
She lifts the cup
She married. O, most wicked speed, to post
She scatters flowers
She should in ground unsanctified been lodged
She speaks much of her father, says she hears
She turns to favor and to prettiness
Should be as mortal as an old man's life
Should have a back or second that might hold
Should have kept short, restrained, and out of haunt
Should patch a wall t' expel the winter's flaw
Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven
Shows itself pure: he weeps for what is done
Since frost itself as actively doth burn
Since love our hearts and Hymen did our hands
Since my dear soul was mistress of her choice
Since nature cannot choose his origin
Since nature makes them partial, should o'erhear
Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red
Singeing his pate against the burning zone
Sings.]	By Gis and by Saint Charity
Sings.]	He is dead and gone, lady
Sings.]	O, a pit of clay for to be made
Sings.]	Tomorrow is Saint Valentine's day
Sings.]	White his shroud as the mountain snow
Sings.] For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy
Sir, here is newly come to court Laertes--believe
Sir, in my heart there was a kind of fighting
Sir, in this audience
Sir, my good friend. I'll change that name with you
Sith I have cause, and will, and strength, and means
Sith nor th' exterior nor the inward man
Sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear
Sits smiling to my heart, in grace whereof
So Guildenstern and Rosencrantz go to 't
So art thou to revenge, when thou shalt hear
So as a painted tyrant Pyrrhus stood
So bloodily hast struck
So by his father lost. And this, I take it
So by my former lecture and advice
So criminal and so capital in nature
So excellent a king, that was to this
So far from cheer and from your former state
So fast they follow. Your sister's drowned, Laertes
So frowned he once when, in an angry parle
So full of artless jealousy is guilt
So grace and mercy at your most need help you
So hallowed and so gracious is that time
So have I heard and do in part believe it
So horridly to shake our disposition
So is it, if thou knew'st our purposes
So levied as before, against the Polack
So many journeys may the sun and moon
So mortal that, but dip a knife in it
So much as from occasion you may glean
So much for this, sir. Now shall you see the other
So much from th' understanding of himself
So nightly toils the subject of the land
So oft it chances in particular men
So please you, something touching the Lord
So tell him, with th' occurrents, more and less
So think thou wilt no second husband wed
So to seduce!--won to his shameful lust
So would I 'a done, by yonder sun
So you will not o'errule me to a peace
So, lust, though to a radiant angel linked
So, proceed you
So, uncle, there you are. Now to my word
Soil our addition. And, indeed, it takes
Some little time, so by your companies
Some say that ever 'gainst that season comes
Something is rotten in the state of Denmark
Sound a flourish
Speak loudly for him
Speak of it.	[The cock crows
Speak to her, Hamlet
Speak to me
Speak to me
Speak, man
Sport and repose lock from me day and night
Sprinkle cool patience! Whereon do you look
Sprung from neglected love.--How now, Ophelia
Spurns enviously at straws, speaks things in doubt
Stand dumb and speak not to him. This to me
Start up and stand an end. O gentle son
Stay and speak!--Stop it, Marcellus
Stay! speak! speak! I charge thee, speak
Stay, give me drink.--Hamlet, this pearl is thine
Stewed in corruption, honeying and making love
Stick fiery off indeed
Still am I called. Unhand me, gentlemen
Stood challenger on mount of all the age
Stoops to his base, and with a hideous crash
Striking too short at Greeks. His antique sword
Subscribed it, gave 't th' impression, placed it
Such as it is), and for my own poor part
Such dear concernings hide? Who would do so
Such love must needs be treason in my breast
Such was the very armor he had on
Sure He that made us with such large discourse
Swear by my sword
Swear by my sword
T' assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps
T' have seen what I have seen, see what I see
T' o'ertop old Pelion or the skyish head
THE GHOST
Taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive
Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment
Take it to heart? Fie, 'tis a fault to heaven
Take these again, for to the noble mind
Take this from this, if this be otherwise
Take thy fair hour, Laertes. Time be thine
Take up the bodies. Such a sight as this
Take you, as 'twere, some distant knowledge of him
Taken to wife. Nor have we herein barred
Takes prisoner Pyrrhus' ear. For lo, his sword
Tears in his eyes, distraction in his aspect
Tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear
Tell him that by his license Fortinbras
Tell us where 'tis, that we may take it thence
Th' ambassadors from Norway, my good lord
Th' associates tend, and everything is bent
Th' effect of what I wrote
Th' expectancy and rose of the fair state
Th' extravagant and erring spirit hies
Th' imperial jointress to this warlike state
Th' important acting of your dread command
Th' observed of all observers, quite, quite down
Th' oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely
Th' unnerved father falls. Then senseless Ilium
Than I to Hercules. Within a month
Than a command to parle. For Lord Hamlet
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy. But come
Than fly to others that we know not of
Than is my deed to my most painted word
Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father
Than may be given you. In few, Ophelia
Than settled age his sables and his weeds
Than that which dearest father bears his son
Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal
Than to entreaty
Than young Laertes, in a riotous head
Than your particular demands will touch it
Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz
Thanks, Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern
That I am guiltless of your father's death
That I distrust you. Yet, though I distrust
That I essentially am not in madness
That I have longed long to redeliver
That I have positively said "'Tis so
That I have shot my arrow o'er the house
That I have uttered. Bring me to the test
That I have? He would drown the stage with tears
That I in forgery of shapes and tricks
That I might be the organ
That I must be their scourge and minister
That I must call 't in question
That I shall live and tell him to his teeth
That I will speak to thee. I'll call thee "Hamlet
That I, the son of a dear father murdered
That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead
That aptly is put on. Refrain tonight
That are but mutes or audience to this act
That are so fortified against our story
That beetles o'er his base into the sea
That blurs the grace and blush of modesty
That both the worlds I give to negligence
That can denote me truly. These indeed "seem
That cannot be, since I am still possessed
That capability and godlike reason
That carry but half sense. Her speech is nothing
That does afflict our natures. I am sorry
That drop of blood that's calm proclaims me
That else leans on th' affair. Pray you, make haste
That even our loves should with our fortunes change
That ever I was born to set it right
That father lost, lost his, and the survivor bound
That flesh is heir to--'tis a consummation
That for a fantasy and trick of fame
That for some vicious mole of nature in them
That from a shelf the precious diadem stole
That from her working all his visage wanned
That grows to seed. Things rank and gross in nature
That guilty creatures sitting at a play
That has no relish of salvation in 't
That hath a stomach in 't; which is no other
That hath in it no profit but the name
That have a father killed, a mother stained
That he could nothing do but wish and beg
That he cried out 'twould be a sight indeed
That he is open to incontinency
That he might not beteem the winds of heaven
That he should weep for her? What would he do
That he which hath your noble father slain
That he's mad, 'tis true; 'tis true 'tis pity
That he, as 'twere by accident, may here
That hurts by easing. But to the quick of th' ulcer
That inward breaks and shows no cause without
That is but scratched withal. I'll touch my point
That is not passion's slave, and I will wear him
That it be proof and bulwark against sense
That it might please you to give quiet pass
That it went hand in hand even with the vow
That lend a tyrannous and a damned light
That liberal shepherds give a grosser name
That live and feed upon your Majesty
That looks so many fathoms to the sea
That makes calamity of so long life
That may to thee do ease and grace to me
That might your nature, honor, and exception
That monster, custom, who all sense doth eat
That no revenue hast but thy good spirits
That not your trespass but my madness speaks
That on the supervise, no leisure bated
That one may smile and smile and be a villain
That our devices still are overthrown
That patient merit of th' unworthy takes
That roars so loud and thunders in the index
That roots itself in ease on Lethe wharf
That shall not be my offer, not thy asking
That she should lock herself from his resort
That show of such an exercise may color
That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream
That so his sickness, age, and impotence
That spirit upon whose weal depends and rests
That sucked the honey of his musicked vows
That swift as quicksilver it courses through
That they are not a pipe for Fortune's finger
That they do know my son, come you more nearer
That they may seem the taints of liberty
That thou so many princes at a shot
That thou, dead corse, again in complete steel
That thus hath cozened you at hoodman-blind
That thus he suffers for
That thy rebellion looks so giant-like
That to Laertes I forgot myself
That to the use of actions fair and good
That treason can but peep to what it would
That unmatched form and stature of blown youth
That was and is the question of these wars
That we are made of stuff so flat and dull
That we can let our beard be shook with danger
That we find out the cause of this effect
That we with wisest sorrow think on him
That would not let me sleep. Methought I lay
That you do bend your eye on vacancy
That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay
That you know aught of me--this do swear
That you vouchsafe your rest here in our court
That you, at such times seeing me, never shall
That your good beauties be the happy cause
That youth and observation copied there
That's an ill phrase, a vile phrase; "beautified" is a
That's not my meaning. But breathe his faults so
That's the end
That's villainous and shows a most pitiful ambition
That, as the star moves not but in his sphere
That, being of so young days brought up with him
That, if again this apparition come
That, lapsed in time and passion, lets go by
That, on the view and knowing of these contents
That, opened, lies within our remedy
That, swoopstake, you will draw both friend and
Thaw, and resolve itself into a dew
The Frenchman gave you; bring you, in fine
The King doth wake tonight and takes his rouse
The King shall drink to Hamlet's better breath
The Other Man exits
The Queen carouses to thy fortune, Hamlet
The Queen falls
The Queen, the courtiers. Who is this they follow
The air bites shrewdly; it is very cold
The apparition comes. I knew your father
The bark is ready, and the wind at help
The bell then beating one
The better to beguile. This is for all
The bold winds speechless, and the orb below
The canker galls the infants of the spring
The cannons to the heavens, the heaven to earth
The cat will mew, and dog will have his day
The changeling never known. Now, the next day
The chariest maid is prodigal enough
The cock, that is the trumpet to the morn
The corse they follow did with desp'rate hand
The counterfeit presentment of two brothers
The courtier's, soldier's, scholar's, eye, tongue
The death I gave him. So, again, good night
The devil himself
The devil take thy soul
The drink, the drink! I am poisoned.	[She dies
The ears are senseless that should give us hearing
The fair Ophelia.--Nymph, in thy orisons
The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind
The form of plausive manners--that these men
The glass of fashion and the mold of form
The glowworm shows the matin to be near
The graves stood tenantless, and the sheeted dead
The great man down, you mark his favorite flies
The hand more instrumental to the mouth
The harlot's cheek beautied with plast'ring art
The hart ungalled play
The head and source of all your son's distemper
The head is not more native to the heart
The hearers to collection. They aim at it
The heartache and the thousand natural shocks
The heyday in the blood is tame, it's humble
The imminent death of twenty thousand men
The insolence of office, and the spurns
The instances that second marriage move
The instant burst of clamor that she made
The inward service of the mind and soul
The kettledrum and trumpet thus bray out
The leprous distilment, whose effect
The light and careless livery that it wears
The lists, and full proportions are all made
The lives of many. The cess of majesty
The memory be green, and that it us befitted
The natural gates and alleys of the body
The need we have to use you did provoke
The nephew to old Norway, Fortinbras
The nights are wholesome; then no planets strike
The ocean, overpeering of his list
The origin and commencement of his grief
The pangs of despised love, the law's delay
The passion ending, doth the purpose lose
The perfume and suppliance of a minute
The pith and marrow of our attribute
The point envenomed too! Then, venom, to thy
The poor, advanced, makes friends of enemies
The portraiture of his. I'll court his favors
The potent poison quite o'ercrows my spirit
The present death of Hamlet. Do it, England
The rather if you could devise it so
The ratifiers and props of every word
The rivals of my watch, bid them make haste
The rugged Pyrrhus, he whose sable arms
The rugged Pyrrhus, like th' Hyrcanian beast
The safety and the health of this whole state
The same, my lord, and your poor servant ever
The serpent that did sting thy father's life
The single and peculiar life is bound
The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune
The soldier's music and the rite of war
The soul of Nero enter this firm bosom
The source of this our watch, and the chief head
The speech of vantage. Fare you well, my liege
The sun no sooner shall the mountains touch
The tedious day with sleep.	[Sleeps
The terms of our estate may not endure
The thin and wholesome blood. So did it mine
The time invests you. Go, your servants tend
The time is out of joint. O cursed spite
The treacherous instrument is in thy hand
The triumph of his pledge
The trumpet to the cannoneer without
The trumpets sounds. Dumb show follows
The undiscovered country from whose bourn
The unseen good old man
The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy
The very faculties of eyes and ears. Yet I
The very place puts toys of desperation
The very soul, and sweet religion makes
The violence of either grief or joy
The virtue of his will; but you must fear
The which he loved passing well
The will of my most seeming-virtuous queen
The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail
The woman will be out.--Adieu, my lord
The youth you breathe of guilty, be assured
Their grand commission; where I found, Horatio
Their own enactures with themselves destroy
Then Hamlet does it not; Hamlet denies it
Then goes he to the length of all his arm
Then trip him, that his heels may kick at heaven
Then up he rose and donned his clothes
Then weigh what loss your honor may sustain
Thence to a lightness, and, by this declension
Thence to a watch, thence into a weakness
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio
There falling out at tennis"; or perchance
There is a play tonight before the King
There is a willow grows askant the brook
There is no shuffling; there the action lies
There lives within the very flame of love
There needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave
There on the pendant boughs her coronet weeds
There was he gaming, there o'ertook in 's rouse
There's a divinity that shapes our ends
There's letters sealed; and my two schoolfellows
There's matter in these sighs; these profound heaves
There's never a villain dwelling in all Denmark
There's rue for you, and here's some for me; we
There's such divinity doth hedge a king
There's tricks i' th' world, and hems, and beats her
There, my lord
Therefore I have entreated him along
Therefore no more but to the matter. My mother
Therefore our sometime sister, now our queen
Therefore, let's follow
Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit
Thereto pricked on by a most emulate pride
Therewith fantastic garlands did she make
These are but wild and whirling words, my lord
These but the trappings and the suits of woe
These hands are not more like
These to your Majesty, this to the Queen
These words like daggers enter in my ears
They are not near my conscience. Their defeat
They bear the mandate; they must sweep my way
They bleed on both sides.--How is it, my lord
They bore him barefaced on the bier
They clepe us drunkards and with swinish phrase
They cry "Choose we, Laertes shall be king
They enter with Hamlet
They exit
They exit
They exit
They exit
They exit
They exit
They exit
They exit
They exit
They exit
They exit
They exit
They exit, Hamlet tugging in Polonius
They exit, marching, after the which, a peal of
They find us touched, we will our kingdom give
They had begun the play. I sat me down
They have proclaimed their malefactions
They shall go far with little
They were given me by Claudio. He received them
They withdraw
Thick, and unwholesome in their thoughts and
Thine evermore, most dear lady, whilst
Things standing thus unknown, shall I leave behind
This above all: to thine own self be true
This bad begins, and worse remains behind
This bird of dawning singeth all night long
This bodes some strange eruption to our state
This bodiless creation ecstasy
This gentle and unforced accord of Hamlet
This grave shall have a living monument
This heavy-headed revel east and west
This is one Lucianus, nephew to the king
This is th' impostume of much wealth and peace
This is the very coinage of your brain
This is the very ecstasy of love
This is too heavy. Let me see another
This likes me well. These foils have all a length
This mad young man. But so much was our love
This man shall set me packing
This marvel to you
This might be my Lord Such-a-one that praised my
This might be the pate of a politician which this ass
This must be known, which, being kept close, might
This must be so." We pray you, throw to earth
This must not be." And then I prescripts gave her
This night to play before him
This physic but prolongs thy sickly days
This play is the image of a murder done in Vienna
This present object made probation
This quarry cries on havoc. O proud Death
This realm dismantled was
This same skull, sir, was, sir, Yorick's skull, the
This something-settled matter in his heart
This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him
This sudden sending him away must seem
This unprevailing woe and think of us
This warlike volley
This was your husband. Look you now what follows
This world is not for aye, nor 'tis not strange
This, in obedience, hath my daughter shown me
Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried
Thou art a scholar. Speak to it, Horatio
Thou canst not then be false to any man
Thou com'st in such a questionable shape
Thou find'st to be too busy is some danger
Thou know'st 'tis common; all that lives must die
Thou knowest already
Thou livest; report me and my cause aright
Thou mixture rank, of midnight weeds collected
Thou still hast been the father of good news
Thou turn'st my eyes into my very soul
Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell
Though all the earth o'erwhelm them, to men's
Though inclination be as sharp as will
Though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven
Though nothing sure, yet much unhappily
Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother's death
Thought and afflictions, passion, hell itself
Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and time
Thrift, thrift, Horatio. The funeral baked meats
Through your dominions for this enterprise
Thrown out his angle for my proper life
Thus conscience does make cowards of us all
Thus didst thou
Thus it remains, and the remainder thus
Thus much the business is: we have here writ
Thus runs the world away
Thus set it down: he shall with speed to England
Thus twice before, and jump at this dead hour
Thus was I, sleeping, by a brother's hand
Thy knotted and combined locks to part
Thy natural magic and dire property
Thyself do grace to them and bring them in
Till I have caught her once more in mine arms
Till by some elder masters of known honor
Till of this flat a mountain you have made
Till our scale turn the beam! O rose of May
Till that her garments, heavy with their drink
Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature
Till the last trumpet. For charitable prayers
Till then in patience our proceeding be
Till then, sit still, my soul. Foul deeds will rise
Time qualifies the spark and fire of it
Tis dangerous when the baser nature comes
Tis deeply sworn. Sweet, leave me here awhile
Tis for the dead, not for the quick; therefore thou
Tis given out that, sleeping in my orchard
Tis heavy with him. And am I then revenged
Tis meet that some more audience than a mother
Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother
Tis now struck twelve. Get thee to bed, Francisco
Tis now the very witching time of night
Tis strange
Tis sweet and commendable in your nature
Tis told me he hath very oft of late
Tis too much proved), that with devotion's visage
Tis too narrow for your mind
To England send him, or confine him where
To Laertes.] Strengthen your patience in our last
To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras
To Queen.] Leave wringing of your hands. Peace, sit
To a nunnery, go.	[He exits
To all that fortune, death, and danger dare
To an exploit, now ripe in my device
To be a preparation 'gainst the Polack
To be commanded
To be contracted in one brow of woe
To be forestalled ere we come to fall
To be or not to be--that is the question
To be your Valentine
To bear our hearts in grief, and our whole kingdom
To both your honors
To business with the King more than the scope
To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions
To cast thee up again. What may this mean
To contract--O--the time for--a--my behove
To desperation turn my trust and hope
To do 't. Examples gross as Earth exhort me
To do obsequious sorrow. But to persever
To draw apart the body he hath killed
To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather
To ears of flesh and blood. List, list, O list
To feed and clothe thee? Why should the poor be
To flaming youth let virtue be as wax
To fust in us unused. Now whether it be
To give in evidence. What then? What rests
To give it due content
To give th' assay of arms against your Majesty
To give the world assurance of a man
To give them seals never, my soul, consent
To give these mourning duties to your father
To grunt and sweat under a weary life
To have proved most royal; and for his passage
To hear and see the matter
To hear him so inclined
To hear of it. They are here about the court
To hear the process. I'll warrant she'll tax him
To heaven
To hell, allegiance! Vows, to the blackest devil
To hide the slain? O, from this time forth
To him from whom you brought them
To his confine, and of the truth herein
To his good friends thus wide I'll ope my arms
To his own scandal
To his unmastered importunity
To keep it from divulging, let it feed
To keep itself from noyance, but much more
To keep my name ungored. But till that time
To keep those many many bodies safe
To lack discretion. Come, go we to the King
To lay our service freely at your feet
To let his madness range. Therefore prepare you
To let this canker of our nature come
To let you know of it
To make it truster of your own report
To make oppression bitter, or ere this
To make them ranker. Forgive me this my virtue
To mine own room again, making so bold
To muddy death
To my revenge; but in my terms of honor
To offer it the show of violence
To our most valiant brother--so much for him
To outface me with leaping in her grave
To pay five ducats, five, I would not farm it
To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt
To prick and sting her. Fare thee well at once
To punish me with this and this with me
To put an antic disposition on
To quit him with this arm? And is 't not to be
To reason most absurd, whose common theme
To serve in such a difference. What devil was 't
To show his grief. Let her be round with him
To show my duty in your coronation
To show us so much gentry and goodwill
To show yourself indeed your father's son
To sing a requiem and such rest to her
To sleep, perchance to dream. Ay, there's the rub
To sound what stop she please. Give me that man
To speak of horrors--he comes before me
To take him in the purging of his soul
To tell him his commandment is fulfilled
To tell my story
To tell the secrets of my prison house
To tell us this
To th' ambassadors of England gives
To the King.] Be you and I behind an arras then
To the inheritance of Fortinbras
To the next abstinence, the next more easy
To the unsatisfied
To their lord's murder. Roasted in wrath and fire
To thine own peace. If he be now returned
To those of mine
To try conclusions, in the basket creep
To wash it white as snow? Whereto serves mercy
To what I shall unfold
To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things
To you alone
To you in satisfaction; but if not
To you yourself, to us, to everyone
To youth and liberty
Together with all forms, moods, shapes of grief
Together with remembrance of ourselves
Together with that fair and warlike form
Too much of water hast thou, poor Ophelia
Too oft before their buttons be disclosed
Too slightly timbered for so loud a wind
Touching this dreaded sight twice seen of us
Transports his poisoned shot, may miss our name
Treachery! Seek it out
Truly deliver
Truly to speak, and with no addition
Trumpets the while
Try what repentance can. What can it not
Tush, tush, 'twill not appear
Tweaks me by the nose? gives me the lie i' th' throat
Twere better not assayed. Therefore this project
Twere good she were spoken with, for she may
Two Messengers
Two nights together had these gentlemen
Two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats
Unbated and envenomed. The foul practice
Under the moon, can save the thing from death
Under the which he shall not choose but fall
Ungartered, and down-gyved to his ankle
Unhouseled, disappointed, unaneled
Unite commutual in most sacred bands
Unless things mortal move them not at all
Unmixed with baser matter. Yes, by heaven
Unpeg the basket on the house's top
Unsifted in such perilous circumstance
Until my eyelids will no longer wag
Unto our climatures and countrymen
Unto that element. But long it could not be
Unto the voice and yielding of that body
Unto young Hamlet; for, upon my life
Up sword, and know thou a more horrid hent
Upon a fearful summons. I have heard
Upon a wretch whose natural gifts were poor
Upon his will I sealed my hard consent
Upon my life, Lamord
Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole
Upon my sword
Upon our first, he sent out to suppress
Upon the heat and flame of thy distemper
Upon the platform, 'twixt eleven and twelve
Upon the witness of these gentlemen
Upon whose influence Neptune's empire stands
Upon whose property and most dear life
VOLTEMAND
VOLTEMAND
Videlicet, a brothel--or so forth. See you now
Virtue itself 'scapes not calumnious strokes
Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg
Visit her face too roughly. Heaven and Earth
Voltemand and Cornelius exit
Voltemand and Cornelius exit
Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill
Was 't Hamlet wronged Laertes? Never Hamlet
Was falsely borne in hand, sends out arrests
Was gaged by our king, which had returned
Was not like madness. There's something in his soul
Was our sea-fight; and what to this was sequent
Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse
Was, as you know, by Fortinbras of Norway
We beg your hearing patiently.	[He exits
We cannot get from him
We do it wrong, being so majestical
We doubt it nothing. Heartily farewell
We go to gain a little patch of ground
We heard it all.--My lord, do as you please
We may of their encounter frankly judge
We must with all our majesty and skill
We o'erraught on the way. Of these we told him
We shall express our duty in his eye
We shall, my lord.	[Rosencrantz and Guildenstern
We should do when we would; for this "would
We should profane the service of the dead
We will bestow ourselves. [To Ophelia.] Read on this
We would not understand what was most fit
We'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings
We'll put on those shall praise your excellence
We'll put the matter to the present push
We'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart
Weigh what convenience both of time and means
Welcome, Horatio.--Welcome, good Marcellus
Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern
Welcome, my good friends
Well may it sort that this portentous figure
Well ratified by law and heraldry
Well said, old mole. Canst work i' th' earth so fast
Well, we shall sift him
Were nothing but to waste night, day, and time
Were thicker than itself with brother's blood
What I have said to you
What a piece of work is a man, how noble in
What art thou that usurp'st this time of night
What company, at what expense; and finding
What does this mean, my lord
What feast is toward in thine eternal cell
What forgeries you please--marry, none so rank
What have I done, that thou dar'st wag thy tongue
What have you done, my lord, with the dead body
What if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord
What is 't but to be nothing else but mad
What is 't, Ophelia, he hath said to you
What is between you? Give me up the truth
What is he whose grief
What is the issue of the business there
What is the matter
What is the reason that you use me thus
What majesty should be, what duty is
What might be toward that this sweaty haste
What might you think? No, I went round to work
What should this mean? Are all the rest come back
What think you on 't
What thou hast said to me
What to ourselves in passion we propose
What warlike noise is this
What we have two nights seen
What wilt thou do? Thou wilt not murder me
What wouldst thou have, Laertes
What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba
What's near it with it; or it is a massy wheel
What, has this thing appeared again tonight
What, have you given him any hard words of late
When I had seen this hot love on the wing
When I to sulf'rous and tormenting flames
When churchyards yawn and hell itself breathes
When down her weedy trophies and herself
When he himself might his quietus make
When he is drunk asleep, or in his rage
When he is fit and seasoned for his passage
When he lay couched in th' ominous horse
When he the ambitious Norway combated
When honor's at the stake. How stand I, then
When in one line two crafts directly meet
When in your motion you are hot and dry
When it proved otherwise
When our deep plots do pall; and that should learn
When second husband kisses me in bed
When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport
When sorrows come, they come not single spies
When that her golden couplets are disclosed
When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul
When the compulsive ardor gives the charge
When thou liest howling
When we have shuffled off this mortal coil
When we would bring him on to some confession
When yond same star that's westward from the pole
Where be your gibes now? your gambols? your
Where every god did seem to set his seal
Where is my Switzers? Let them guard the door
Where is the beauteous Majesty of Denmark
Where is this king?--Sirs, stand you all without
Where is your son
Where it draws blood no cataplasm so rare
Where joy most revels, grief doth most lament
Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe
Where little fears grow great, great love grows there
Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear
Where now it burns, Marcellus and myself
Where should we have our thanks
Where the dead body is bestowed, my lord
Where thrift may follow fawning. Dost thou hear
Where truth is hid, though it were hid, indeed
Where we shall find him most convenient
Where you may see the inmost part of you
Where's your father
Where, as they had delivered, both in time
Where, my lord
Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the King
Wherein necessity, of matter beggared
Wherein our Savior's birth is celebrated
Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk
Wherein they say you shine. Your sum of parts
Wherein we saw thee quietly interred
Whereof he is the head. Then, if he says he loves
Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus
Whereon old Norway, overcome with joy
Whereon the numbers cannot try the cause
Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
Whether aught to us unknown afflicts him thus
Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air
Whether love lead fortune or else fortune love
Which I have told thee of my father's death
Which are not sterling. Tender yourself more dearly
Which bewept to the ground did not go
Which done, she took the fruits of my advice
Which happily foreknowing may avoid
Which have solicited--the rest is silence
Which he stood seized of, to the conqueror
Which is not tomb enough and continent
Which is the mightier. In his lawless fit
Which let thy wisdom fear. Hold off thy hand
Which may to you perhaps seem much unsinewed
Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason
Which now goes too free-footed
Which now to claim my vantage doth invite me
Which now, the fruit unripe, sticks on the tree
Which time she chanted snatches of old lauds
Which was declining on the milky head
Which was the model of that Danish seal
Which we do tender, as we dearly grieve
Which, as her winks and nods and gestures yield
While one with moderate haste might tell a
Whiles rank corruption, mining all within
Whiles, like a puffed and reckless libertine
Whips out his rapier, cries "A rat, a rat
Whither wilt thou lead me? Speak. I'll go no
Who calls me "villain"? breaks my pate across
Who does it, then? His madness. If 't be so
Who is 't that can inform me
Who like not in their judgment, but their eyes
Who this had seen, with tongue in venom steeped
Who was in life a foolish prating knave
Who, dipping all his faults in their affection
Who, impotent and bedrid, scarcely hears
Who, in her duty and obedience, mark
Whom I will trust as I will adders fanged
Whose blood and judgment are so well
Whose do you think it was
Whose grave's this, sirrah
Whose image even but now appeared to us
Whose motive in this case should stir me most
Whose spirit with divine ambition puffed
Whose violent property fordoes itself
Whose whisper o'er the world's diameter
Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense
Whose worth, if praises may go back again
Why as a woodcock to mine own springe, Osric
Why day is day, night night, and time is time
Why does the drum come hither
Why may not imagination trace the noble dust of
Why seems it so particular with thee
Why should we in our peevish opposition
Why such impress of shipwrights, whose sore task
Why the man dies.--I humbly thank you, sir
Why this same strict and most observant watch
Why thou art thus incensed.--Let him go
Why thy canonized bones, hearsed in death
Why to a public count I might not go
Why yet I live to say "This thing's to do
Why you proceeded not against these feats
Why, 'tis a loving and a fair reply
Why, I will fight with him upon this theme
Why, even in that was heaven ordinant
Why, how now, Hamlet
Why, let the strucken deer go weep
Why, look you there, look how it steals away
Why, man, they did make love to this employment
Why, then, belike he likes it not, perdy
Why, then, the Polack never will defend it
Why, this is hire and salary, not revenge
Why, what an ass am I! This is most brave
Will be some danger; which for to prevent
Will bring him to his wonted way again
Will not debate the question of this straw
Will not peruse the foils, so that with ease
Will nothing stick our person to arraign
Will sate itself in a celestial bed
Will so bestow ourselves that, seeing unseen
Will want true color--tears perchance for blood
Will you be ruled by me
Will you do this? Keep close within your chamber
Will you two help to hasten them
Winner and loser
With Hecate's ban thrice blasted, thrice infected
With a bare bodkin? Who would fardels bear
With a sore distraction. What I have done
With all his crimes broad blown, as flush as May
With all my heart, and it doth much content me
With all my imperfections on my head
With all my love I do commend me to you
With all the strength and armor of the mind
With almost all the holy vows of heaven
With an attent ear, till I may deliver
With an auspicious and a dropping eye
With an entreaty, herein further shown
With arms encumbered thus, or this headshake
With bisson rheum, a clout upon that head
With blood of fathers, mothers, daughters, sons
With eyes like carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus
With fiery quickness. Therefore prepare thyself
With forms to his conceit--and all for nothing
With heated visage, as against the doom
With heraldry more dismal. Head to foot
With juice of cursed hebona in a vial
With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword
With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch
With mirth in funeral and with dirge in marriage
With most miraculous organ. I'll have these players
With pestilent speeches of his father's death
With such dexterity to incestuous sheets
With the brave beast. So far he topped my thought
With this affair along. For all, our thanks
With this contagion, that, if I gall him slightly
With this regard their currents turn awry
With this slave's offal. Bloody, bawdy villain
With thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls
With true-love showers
With turbulent and dangerous lunacy
With us to watch the minutes of this night
With variable objects, shall expel
With which she followed my poor father's body
With windlasses and with assays of bias
With witchcraft of his wits, with traitorous gifts
With wondrous potency. Once more, good night
With--ho!--such bugs and goblins in my life
Within his truncheon's length, whilst they, distilled
Within the book and volume of my brain
Within the center
Without debatement further, more or less
Without more motive, into every brain
Without the sensible and true avouch
Without the which we are pictures or mere beasts
Without, my lord; guarded, to know your pleasure
Witness this army of such mass and charge
Woo't drink up eisel, eat a crocodile
Woo't weep, woo't fight, woo't fast, woo't tear
Words without thoughts never to heaven go
Work like the spring that turneth wood to stone
Worse than the mutines in the bilboes. Rashly
Would I had met my dearest foe in heaven
Would from a paddock, from a bat, a gib
Would gambol from. Mother, for love of grace
Would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood
Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven
Would have mourned longer!), married with my
Would have reverted to my bow again
Would make them capable. [To the Ghost.] Do not
Would not this, sir, and a forest of feathers (if the
Would quake to look on. Soft, now to my mother
Would step from this to this? Sense sure you have
Wouldst thou not stir in this. Now, Hamlet, hear
Yea, curb and woo for leave to do him good
Yea, from the table of my memory
Yes, by Saint Patrick, but there is, Horatio
Yes, faith, heartily
Yes, it is already garrisoned
Yet have I in me something dangerous
Yet here she is allowed her virgin crants
Yet here, Laertes? Aboard, aboard, for shame
Yet must not we put the strong law on him
Yet needful too, for youth no less becomes
Yet now I must confess, that duty done
Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature
Yet the unshaped use of it doth move
Yet what can it, when one cannot repent
Yorick! I knew him, Horatio--a fellow of infinite
You are the Queen, your husband's brother's wife
You are the most immediate to our throne
You are welcome, masters; welcome all.--I am glad
You cannot call it love, for at your age
You cannot speak of reason to the Dane
You come most carefully upon your hour
You do not understand yourself so clearly
You do remember all the circumstance
You from the Polack wars, and you from England
You go not till I set you up a glass
You have been talked of since your travel much
You heavenly guards!--What would your gracious
You know sometimes he walks four hours together
You know the wager
You mainly were stirred up
You must not put another scandal on him
You must not take for fire. From this time
You must translate; 'tis fit we understand them
You need not tell us what Lord Hamlet said
You promised me to wed
You shall do marvelous wisely, good Reynaldo
You shall not go, my lord.	[They hold back Hamlet
You that look pale and tremble at this chance
You told us of some suit. What is 't, Laertes
You, as your business and desire shall point you
You, good Cornelius, and you, Voltemand
You, laying these slight sullies on my son
Young Fortinbras, with conquest come from Poland
Young men will do 't, if they come to 't
Your Grace has laid the odds o' th' weaker side
Your bait of falsehood take this carp of truth
Your bedded hair, like life in excrements
Your better wisdoms, which have freely gone
Your hands, come then. Th' appurtenance of welcome
Your leave and favor to return to France
Your loneliness.--We are oft to blame in this
Your loves, as mine to you. Farewell
Your skill shall, like a star i' th' darkest night
Your sudden coming-o'er, to play with you
Your visitation shall receive such thanks
Your wisdom best shall think
Youth to itself rebels, though none else near
a breeder of sinners? I am myself indifferent honest
a compelled valor, and in the grapple I boarded them
a gentlewoman, she should have been buried out o
a hundred ducats apiece for his picture in little
a thousand pound. Didst perceive
a whole theater of others. O, there be players that I
a wholesome answer, I will do your mother's
a year. But, by 'r Lady, he must build churches, then
about my heart. But it is no matter
about of brains
about the sconce with a dirty shovel and will not tell
accent and good discretion
ache to think on 't
affair
affliction of spirit, hath sent me to you
afterwards, if they should grow themselves to common
agreeing
all "impawned," as you call it
all after
all but one, shall live. The rest shall keep as they are
all; believe none of us. Go thy ways to a nunnery
am let to know it is.	[He hands Horatio a letter
an angel, in apprehension how like a god: the
ancient gentlemen but gard'ners, ditchers, and
and Lords exit
and drown him, he drowns not himself. Argal, he
and his load too
and light a quality that it is but a shadow's shadow
and more strange return. Hamlet
and must th' inheritor himself have no more, ha
and outstretched heroes the beggars' shadows
and presently
and the Gravedigger digs and sings
and then, you know
and there is much music, excellent voice, in this
and winnowed opinions; and do but blow them to
ape an apple in the corner of his jaw, first mouthed
are spent
are too dear a halfpenny. Were you not sent for
art to reckon my groans, but that I love thee best, O
article, and his infusion of such dearth and rareness
as thou wouldst fly death. I have words to speak in
as we have many pocky corses nowadays that will
as, to make true diction of him, his semblable is his
assigns, and three liberal-conceited carriages
assigns, as girdle, hangers, and so. Three of the
assurance in that. I will speak to this fellow
at my beck than I have thoughts to put them
at that.--Prithee, Horatio, tell me one thing
attend him in the hall. He sends to know if your
attractive.	[Hamlet takes a place near Ophelia
awhile but in the end accepts his love
back a thousand times, and now how abhorred in
bade me signify to you that he has laid a great wager
baker's daughter. Lord, we know what we are but
bastard
be in 's time a great buyer of land, with his statutes
be one man picked out of ten thousand
beating. And, when you are asked this question
beauty of the world, the paragon of animals--and
became their prisoner. They have dealt with me like
beget a temperance that may give it smoothness. O
begin. Come, the croaking raven doth bellow for
bellowed that I have thought some of nature's
between
between earth and heaven? We are arrant knaves
blessing, but, as your daughter may conceive
blood
body is and go with us to the King
body. Here's a skull now hath lien you i' th' earth
book
both in reputation and profit, was better both ways
both sides, and the nation holds it no sin to tar
bound for England--if your name be Horatio, as I
bounteous
branches--it is to act, to do, to perform. Argal, she
breed that I know the drossy age dotes on) only got
breeding but to play at loggets with them? Mine
but I cannot choose but weep to think they would
but I thank you, and sure, dear friends, my thanks
but a foul and pestilent congregation of vapors
but variable service--two dishes but to one table
but yet I could accuse me of such things that it
but, as I say, spacious in the possession of dirt
by William Shakespeare
calendar of gentry, for you shall find in him the
calf there.--Be the players ready
cannot but make the judicious grieve, the censure
cannot keep counsel; they'll tell all
cannot so inoculate our old stock but we shall
capons so
carriages, in faith, are very dear to fancy, very
certain
certain convocation of politic worms are e'en at
changes
chapless and knocked about the mazard with a
chiefly loved. 'Twas Aeneas' tale to Dido, and
choler
closet ere you go to bed
color. I know the good king and queen have sent for
come by and by
comes in another man, takes off his crown, kisses it, pours
commandment. If not, your pardon and my return
commeddled
condole with her. The dead body is carried away. The
conscience
conscience
continent of what part a gentleman would see
conveyances of his lands will scarcely lie in this box
corpse of Ophelia, with a Doctor of Divinity
could you not
count myself a king of infinite space, were it not
crib shall stand at the king's mess. 'Tis a chough
custom of exercises, and, indeed, it goes so heavily
damned
daughter
daughter
daughter that I love passing well
deceived
delight in, the tragedians of the city
delights not me
delights not me, no, nor women neither, though by
desert
differences, of very soft society and great showing
digged. Could he dig without arms? I'll put another
dignity. The less they deserve, the more merit is in
discretion be your tutor. Suit the action to the
diseased. But, sir, such answer as I can make, you
distemper? You do surely bar the door upon your
distempered
do a good turn for them. Let the King have the letters
do you think I am easier to be played on than a pipe
does he suffer this mad knave now to knock him
dog, being a good kissing carrion--Have you a
drowned herself wittingly
dumb shows and noise. I would have such a fellow
each ear a hearer! That great baby you see there is
easiness
eat the air, promise-crammed. You cannot feed
edge
eight year or nine year. A tanner will last you nine
either the mason, the shipwright, or the carpenter
else. For here lies the point: if I drown myself
embracing him and he her. She kneels and makes show of
encounter, a kind of yeasty collection, which carries
enough. God hath given you one face, and you
entertainment to Laertes before you fall to play
epitaph than their ill report while you live
ere you had done
even, sir
exceed you three hits. He hath laid on twelve for
excellent canopy, the air, look you, this brave o'erhanging
except my life, except my life
eyases, that cry out on the top of question and are
eyes
fashion and so berattle the common stages (so
fashion i' th' earth
fat all creatures else to fat us, and we fat ourselves
fee
fellowship in a cry of players
figure
find him not there, seek him i' th' other
firmament, this majestical roof, fretted
fitted
flattered
flowers. She, seeing him asleep, leaves him. Anon
foe
foils, daggers, flagons of wine, and Laertes
foolish ear
for 'tis a vice to know him. He hath much
for I'll have a suit of sables. O heavens, die two
for in the very torrent, tempest, and, as I may say
for maggots. Your fat king and your lean beggar is
for the very substance of the ambitious is merely
for they are the abstract and brief chronicles of the
for thy dowry: be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as
for you, sir. It came from th' ambassador that was
for your dull ass will not mend his pace with
for, and there is a kind of confession in your looks
forestall their repair hither and say you are not fit
fret me, you cannot play upon me
friend, look to 't
friends
from me to you
from my lowest note to the top of my compass
further
gaingiving as would perhaps trouble a woman
gallows does well. But how does it well? It does
gallows is built stronger than the church. Argal, the
gallows may do well to thee. To 't again, come
galls his kibe.--How long hast thou been
gentleman in our more rawer breath
give you some violets, but they withered all when
gleaned, it is but squeezing you, and, sponge, you
good actor
good. Here stands the man; good. If the man go to
grave-maker
grave-makers. They hold up Adam's profession
greenly
greeted, if not from Lord Hamlet
grown honest
hadst thou
halt for 't. What players are they
has tears in 's eyes. Prithee, no more
hath the daintier sense
have a speech straight. Come, give us a taste of your
have been in continual practice. I shall win at the
have seen play and heard others praise (and that
have you, my good friends, deserved at the hands of
having th' accent of Christians nor the gait of
he goes; mark you that. But if the water come to him
he sleeps. Say on; come to Hecuba
head
head
head upon her neck. He lies him down upon a bank of
heart
height
hell
hence
her
her soul, she's dead
herself in her own defense
highly), not to speak it profanely, that, neither
him
him of his action of battery? Hum, this fellow might
him while my father lived give twenty, forty, fifty
him. Your worm is your only emperor for diet. We
his form and pressure. Now this overdone or come
his purgation would perhaps plunge him into more
his recognizances, his fines, his double vouchers
his recoveries. Is this the fine of his fines and the
his rewards, his authorities. But such officers do the
historical-pastoral, tragical-historical
hither are they coming to offer you service
hits
hobby-horse is forgot
hobby-horse, whose epitaph is "For oh, for oh, the
hold it not honesty to have it thus set down; for
hold their course for England; of them I have
home
honest man, I am most dreadfully attended. But
hope a great man's memory may outlive his life half
horses, against the which he has impawned, as I
hours
how express and admirable; in action how like
https://shakespeare.folger.edu/shakespeares-works/hamlet
hundred
if I could see the puppets dallying
if philosophy could find it out
in the beaten way of friendship, what make you at
in the fool that uses it. Go make you ready
in trial
in, imagination to give them shape, or time to act
is
is fashion and ceremony. Let me comply
is nearer to heaven than when I saw you last, by
it
it himself. There are no tongues else for 's
it offends me to the soul to hear a robustious
it to you, trippingly on the tongue; but if you mouth
it! It is the false steward that stole his master's
it, as many of our players do, I had as lief the
it. And so I thank you for your good counsel. Come
it: the age is grown so picked that the toe of the
jest, of most excellent fancy. He hath bore me on his
journeymen had made men, and not made them
keep
knight shall use his foil and target, the lover shall
know from what part of the world I should be
know not what we may be. God be at your table
knows
knows, what is 't to leave betimes? Let be
ladies, good night, good night.	[She exits
lady's chamber, and tell her, let her paint an inch
laid on him by them, in his meed he's
land, and fertile. Let a beast be lord of beasts and his
last. Com'st thou to beard me in Denmark?--What
lasts till doomsday. Go, get thee in, and fetch me a
laugh, to set on some quantity of barren spectators
lay him i' th' cold ground. My brother shall know of
legs
length and breadth of a pair of indentures? The very
letters for you
liest
light for the bore of the matter. These good fellows
like French falconers, fly at anything we see. We'll
likeness. This was sometime a paradox, but now
lines, which I would set down and insert in 't
little organ, yet cannot you make it speak. 'Sblood
look upon me
lord
lost
love is too unmannerly
love, and by what more dear a better
make yourselves another. You jig and amble, and
man after his desert and who shall 'scape
man do but be merry? For look you how cheerfully
man, what Lenten entertainment the players shall
marry a fool, for wise men know well enough what
matter if we could carry a cannon by our sides. I
matter there
matters cried in the top of mine) an excellent play
may call it herb of grace o' Sundays. You must wear
me
me, an absolute gentleman, full of most excellent
means of the late innovation
meeting between him and my daughter.--My lord
method in 't.--Will you walk out of the air, my lord
method, as wholesome as sweet and, by very much
middle of her favors
might
might it not
might it not
mine
mirror, and who else would trace him, his umbrage
mischance
mischief
mock him not. [First Player exits.] My good friends
modesty as cunning. I remember one said there
money bid for argument unless the poet and the
monsters you make of them. To a nunnery, go, and
months ago, and not forgotten yet? Then there's
more
more appear like entertainment than yours. You are
more handsome than fine. One speech in 't I
more on 't. It hath made me mad. I say we will have
more, for look where my abridgment comes
morning, 'twas then indeed
morrow, sweet lord! How dost thou, sweet lord
most beautified Ophelia
most best, believe it. Adieu
most part are capable of nothing but inexplicable
most tyrannically clapped for 't. These are now the
mother's admiration? Impart
mouth
move
much to tell thee. Farewell
murderer gets the love of Gonzago's wife
murderer. Pox, leave thy damnable faces and
music. Look you, these are the stops
my coach! Good night, ladies, good night, sweet
my complexion
my daughter. Yet he knew me not at first; he said I
my father died. They say he made a good end
my imagination it is! My gorge rises at it. Here hung
my mother looks, and my father died within 's two
my young lady and mistress! By 'r Lady, your Ladyship
naked on your kingdom. Tomorrow shall I beg leave to
name's Gonzago. The story is extant and written in
nation
nature will
nature, to show virtue her own feature, scorn her
nature. For anything so o'erdone is from the purpose
need, study a speech of some dozen or sixteen
next, say "a grave-maker." The houses he makes
night's speech
nine, and it would come to immediate trial if your
no better), their writers do them wrong to make
no longer than they can sing? Will they not say
no more marriage. Those that are married already
noise
northerly
not sigh gratis, the humorous man shall end his
not yet out of his swaddling clouts
not you ashamed to show, he'll not shame to tell you
not yours. For my part, I do not lie in 't, yet it is
nothing either good or bad but thinking makes it
nothing more
now
now o'erreaches, one that would circumvent God
now, 'tis not to come; if it be not to come, it will be
now, was and is to hold, as 'twere, the mirror up to
now; if it be not now, yet it will come. The
nunnery, farewell. Or if thou wilt needs marry
observance, that you o'erstep not the modesty of
odds; but thou wouldst not think how ill all's here
of a king and eat of the fish that hath fed of that
of fine dirt? Will his vouchers vouch him no more
of goose quills and dare scarce come thither
of his purchases, and double ones too, than the
of me, as if you would drive me into a toil
of our youth, by the obligation of our ever-preserved
of playing, whose end, both at the first and
of the right breed. If it shall please you to make me
of the which one must in your allowance o'erweigh
of very liberal conceit
offense i' th' world
offense in 't
old at sea, a pirate of very warlike appointment gave
old friend! Why, thy face is valanced since I saw thee
on your head. Sir, this is the matter
once. How the knave jowls it to the ground as if
or a carpenter
or else shall he suffer not thinking on, with the
or so," and "gentleman
ordnance are shot off
our withers are unwrung
out
out the heart of my mystery, you would sound me
overlooked this, give these fellows some means to the
own grinning? Quite chapfallen? Now get you to my
own image, and the very age and body of the time
own liberty if you deny your griefs to your friend
own life
own. Besides, to be demanded of a sponge, what
pace. But there is, sir, an aerie of children, little
pardon) thereunto recount the occasion of my sudden
part in peace, the clown shall make those laugh
passes between yourself and him, he shall not
patience
peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier, he
performance
periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to tatters, to very
piece of uncurrent gold, be not cracked within the
pity that great folk should have count'nance in this
place yourself. But if, indeed, you find him not
play
play
play the fool nowhere but in 's own house. Farewell
played once i' th' university, you say
player went to cuffs in the question
players (as it is most like, if their means are
players; mark it.--You say right, sir, a Monday
pleasure hold to play with Laertes, or that you will
plum-tree gum, and that they have a plentiful lack of
poem unlimited. Seneca cannot be too heavy, nor
poison in the sleeper's ears, and leaves him. The Queen
poisoner with some three or four come in again, seem to
poisoner woos the Queen with gifts. She seems harsh
pregnant sometimes his replies are! A happiness
prevent your discovery, and your secrecy to the
progress through the guts of a beggar
pronounced
proposer can charge you withal: be even and direct
protestation unto him. He takes her up and declines his
proverb is something musty
purpose, confess thyself
quaintly
quality. Come, a passionate speech
question of the play be then to be considered
question to thee. If thou answerest me not to the
quickly too. Farewell
quillities, his cases, his tenures, and his tricks? Why
rags, to split the ears of the groundlings, who for the
rapiers, and Hamlet wounds Laertes
readiness is all. Since no man of aught he leaves
reading
ready now or whensoever, provided I be so able as
reason
reason, how infinite in faculties, in form and moving
receive from you. We coted them on the way, and
received it, and others whose judgments in such
recorder and turns to Guildenstern.] To withdraw
recorders
recover his wits there. Or if he do not, 'tis no great
recovery of his recoveries, to have his fine pate full
relish of it. I loved you not
replication should be made by the son of a king
responsive to the hilts, most delicate carriages, and
rest of my fortunes turn Turk with me) with two
rest of my servants, for, to speak to you like an
returneth to dust; the dust is earth; of earth
returns, finds the King dead, makes passionate action. The
revenge
ring. Masters, you are all welcome. We'll e'en to 't
safely
sanity could not so prosperously be delivered of. I
savory, nor no matter in the phrase that might indict
say
scarce hold the laying in), he will last you some
see your kingly eyes, when I shall (first asking your
set the table on a roar? Not one now to mock your
sexton here, man and boy, thirty years
sexton's spade. Here's fine revolution, an we had
shall be dry again
shall be the end of my business
shall command--or, rather, as you say, my mother
shall say her mind freely, or the blank verse shall
shall see anon. 'Tis a knavish piece of work, but
shape of a camel
should admit no discourse to your beauty
should impart a thing to you from his Majesty
sings in grave-making
skull of a lawyer? Where be his quiddities now, his
snow, thou shalt not escape calumny. Get thee to a
so
so. To me, it is a prison
some frame and start not so wildly from my
something. Where did I leave
songs? your flashes of merriment that were wont to
souls, it touches us not. Let the galled jade wince
sound
speak
speak
special providence in the fall of a sparrow. If it be
spheres
spirit. Put your bonnet to his right use: 'tis for the
stoup of liquor
straight. The crowner hath sat on her and finds it
strew
struck her into amazement and admiration
sucked it. Thus has he (and many more of the same
sword
take it, six French rapiers and poniards, with their
take longer time
tardy off, though it makes the unskillful laugh
tell that. It was that very day that young Hamlet
th' worst
than with honesty
that
that I have bad dreams
that day that our last King Hamlet overcame
that is not guilty of his own death shortens not his
that often madness hits on, which reason and
that old men have gray beards, that their faces are
that's for thoughts
that's the French bet against the Danish. Why is this
the First Player.] Dost thou hear me, old friend? Can
the King's pleasure. If his fitness speaks, mine is
the altitude of a chopine. Pray God your voice, like a
the author of affection, but called it an honest
the card, or equivocation will undo us. By the
the first row of the pious chanson will show you
the foils be brought, the gentleman willing, and the
the force of honesty can translate beauty into his
the men are as mad as he
the play, I remember, pleased not the million
the shadow of a dream
the stairs into the lobby
the time gives it proof. I did love you once
the trick to see 't. Did these bones cost no more the
the tune of the time, and, out of an habit of
thee
their even-Christian. Come, my spade. There is no
their trial, the bubbles are out
them
them
them
them exclaim against their own succession
them in. What should such fellows as I do crawling
them through and through the most fanned
them to controversy. There was for a while no
them, for there be of them that will themselves
them, for they say an old man is twice a child
thereabout of it especially when he speaks of
these are the only men
they ask you what it means, say you this
they call them) that many wearing rapiers are afraid
thick, to this favor she must come. Make her laugh
thieves of mercy, but they knew what they did: I am to
thine ear will make thee dumb; yet are they much too
this gentleman
this line--let me see, let me see
this machine is to him, Hamlet
this soon.--Good my lord, will you see the players
this water and drown himself, it is (will he, nill he
this. I'll speak to him again.--What do you read, my
those lips that I have kissed I know not how oft
though I most powerfully and potently believe, yet I
thought
thoughts
thousand tenants
three-and-twenty years
through the arras
thus: Alexander died, Alexander was buried, Alexander
thyself
time. After your death you were better have a bad
tis not so; it begins with Pyrrhus
to be last swallowed. When he needs what you have
to laugh too, though in the meantime some necessary
to see thee well.--Welcome, good friends.--O my
to signify this to the doctor, for for me to put him to
together
tomorrow. [As Polonius and Players exit, Hamlet speaks to
tongue? You will to 't, sir, really
too much with your hand, thus, but use all gently
torches
town-crier spoke my lines. Nor do not saw the air
trade that he will keep out water a great while; and
tragedy, comedy, history, pastoral, pastoral-comical
tragical-comical-historical-pastoral, scene individable, or
transform honesty from what it is to a bawd than
true. Let me question more in particular. What
truepenny
turn
twas caviary to the general. But it was (as I
twere Cain's jawbone, that did the first murder
twere--I cannot tell how. My lord, his Majesty
uncle
understand the scripture? The scripture says Adam
unfellowed
upon this pipe
us
us chase. Finding ourselves too slow of sail, we put on
utt'rance of harmony. I have not the skill
verity of extolment, I take him to be a soul of great
very choice Italian. You shall see anon how the
very proud, revengeful, ambitious, with more offenses
vile king
vile phrase. But you shall hear. Thus: [He reads
villain
voice of the King himself for your succession in
wards, and dungeons, Denmark being one o
was I about to say? By the Mass, I was about to say
was a fishmonger. He is far gone. And truly, in my
was an actor in Rome
was born--he that is mad, and sent into England
was converted might they not stop a beer barrel
was never acted, or, if it was, not above once; for
we make loam; and why of that loam whereto he
welcome. But my uncle-father and aunt-mother are
well bestowed? Do you hear, let them be well used
well digested in the scenes, set down with as much
well to those that do ill. Now, thou dost ill to say the
well, they imitated humanity so abominably
were better my mother had not borne me: I am
were no sallets in the lines to make the matter
were to know himself
what it means
what of that? Your Majesty and we that have free
when I was in the city? Are they so followed
when she willfully seeks her own salvation
wherefore I know not, lost all my mirth, forgone all
which your modesties have not craft enough to
which, I tell you, must show fairly outwards, should
whipped for o'erdoing Termagant. It out-Herods
whipping? Use them after your own honor and
whirlwind of your passion, you must acquire and
whispers
whose lungs are tickle o' th' sear, and the lady
will bring thee where I am. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern
will leave him and suddenly contrive the means of
will more willingly part withal--except my life
wind is southerly, I know a hawk from a handsaw
wisdom
wit, together with most weak hams; all which, sir
with
with Michael Poston and Rebecca Niles
with cushions, King, Queen, Osric, and all the state
with golden fire--why, it appeareth nothing to me
with him in excellence. But to know a man well
with me whether you were sent for or no
with modesty enough and likelihood to lead it, as
with my disposition that this goodly frame, the
with some Attendants
with the body. The King is a thing
with us, sir
with you
with you in this garb, lest my extent to the players
with you: why do you go about to recover the wind
with your fingers and thumb, give it breath with
within this month, you shall nose him as you go up
wittingly, it argues an act, and an act hath three
word, the word to the action, with this special
words are not mine
work
work.	[Hurts the King
world to drown or hang themselves more than
worm
would
would dozy th' arithmetic of memory, and yet but
would it might be "hangers" till then. But on. Six
would not much approve me. Well, sir
would seem to know my stops, you would pluck
wrinkled, their eyes purging thick amber and
yaw neither, in respect of his quick sail. But, in the
year
yet, to me, what is this quintessence of dust? Man
you
you
you
you both
you by the rights of our fellowship, by the consonancy
you could go backward
you down
you lisp; you nickname God's creatures and make
you love me, hold not off
you make of me! You would play upon me, you
you play "The Murder of Gonzago
you say
you, though I know to divide him inventorially
you.	[She exits
young Osric, who brings back to him that you
your bounty. Take them in
your clowns speak no more than is set down for
your mouth, and it will discourse most eloquent
your rue with a difference. There's a daisy. I would
your smiling you seem to say so
your wantonness your ignorance. Go to, I'll no
your water is a sore decayer of your whoreson dead
yourself, sir, shall grow old as I am, if, like a crab
youth, I suffered much extremity for love, very near
